IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON IMAGE PROCESSING, VOL. 25, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2016

5743

Learning Collaborative Sparse Representation
for Grayscale-Thermal Tracking
Chenglong Li, Hui Cheng, Shiyi Hu, Xiaobai Liu, Jin Tang, and Liang Lin, Senior Member, IEEE

Abstract— Integrating multiple different yet complementary
feature representations has been proved to be an effective way
for boosting tracking performance. This paper investigates how
to perform robust object tracking in challenging scenarios by
adaptively incorporating information from grayscale and thermal
videos, and proposes a novel collaborative algorithm for online
tracking. In particular, an adaptive fusion scheme is proposed
based on collaborative sparse representation in Bayesian filtering
framework. We jointly optimize sparse codes and the reliable
weights of different modalities in an online way. In addition,
this paper contributes a comprehensive video benchmark, which
includes 50 grayscale-thermal sequences and their ground truth
annotations for tracking purpose. The videos are with high diversity and the annotations were finished by one single person to
guarantee consistency. Extensive experiments against other stateof-the-art trackers with both grayscale and grayscale-thermal
inputs demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed tracking
approach. Through analyzing quantitative results, we also provide basic insights and potential future research directions in
grayscale-thermal tracking.
Index
Terms— Collaborative
sparse
representation,
multi-task modeling, grayscale-thermal tracking benchmark,
adaptive tracking.

I. I NTRODUCTION
ESPITE significant progress, visual object tracking using
visible spectrum camera remains a very challenging
task in some complex scenarios, such as low illumination,
background clutters, as well as bad weathers (rain, haze,
smog, etc.). Fortunately, these factors can be addressed by
leveraging the complementary benefits of fusing other modalities [1]. For example, the depth sensors can provide valuable

D

Manuscript received September 6, 2015; revised March 23, 2016 and
June 22, 2016; accepted September 12, 2016. Date of publication September 27, 2016; date of current version October 18, 2016. This work was
supported in part by the National Natural Science Foundation of China under
Grant 61472002 and Grant 61370185, in part by the Guangdong Natural Science Foundation under Grant S2013010013432 and Grant S2013010015940,
in part by the Special Program for Applied Research on Super Computation
of the NSFC-Guangdong Joint Fund (the second phase), and in part by the
Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities. The associate editor
coordinating the review of this manuscript and approving it for publication
was Prof. Vishal Monga. (Corresponding author: Jin Tang.)
C. Li and J. Tang are with the School of Computer Science and Technology, Anhui University, Hefei 230601, China (e-mail: lcl1314@foxmail.com;
tj@ahu.edu.cn).
H. Cheng, S. Hu, and L. Lin are with the School of Data and Computer Science, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510006, China, and also
with the Collaborative Innovation Center of High Performance Computing,
National University of Defense Technology, Changsha 410073, China (e-mail:
chengh9@mail.sysu.edu.cn; hushiyi@mail2.sysu.edu.cn; linliang@ieee.org).
X. Liu is with the Department of Computer Science, San Diego State
University, San Diego, CA 92182 USA (e-mail: xiaobai.liu@mail.sdsu.edu).
Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available
online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TIP.2016.2614135

additional depth information to substantially improve tracking
results by robust occlusion and model drift handling. However,
these sensors suffer from the limited range (e.g., 4-5 meters
at most).
Thermal infrared cameras, as a kind of passive sensors, can
capture infrared radiation emitted by subjects with a temperature above absolute zero. This type of cameras, originally
developed for military use (e.g., surveillance during night),
has recently become more economically affordable and thus
applied to wide applications [2], [3]. On one hand, these
sensors are more effective than visible spectrum cameras under
poor lighting conditions, and can also overcome the abovementioned limitation of depth sensors. On the other hand,
visible spectrum cameras are more effective while separating
two moving subjects are crossing or moving side (or called
“thermal crossover” [4]). Therefore, grayscale and thermal
data can complement information to each other to achieve
robust tracking performance in challenging scenarios [5]–[7].
Focusing on a collaborative model and a comprehensive evaluation benchmark of grayscale-thermal tracking,1 we
address following remaining issues in this paper through
existing works.
• How to achieve robust tracking by adaptively exploiting
grayscale and thermal information based on their reliability. Previous works [1], [8] adopted simple weight
schemes to achieve adaptive grayscale-thermal tracking,
which might easily fail in challenging scenarios. Bunyak
et al. [9] employed thermal information to assist grayscale
tracking as it is less sensitive to illumination variations
and shadows. When thermal information is unreliable,
this kind of methods will lead to poor performance.
Recent joint sparse representation methods [4], [10] presented promising results in grayscale-thermal tracking.
However, these methods ignored the reliabilities of different modalities in sparse representation.
• How to create a comprehensive grayscale-thermal tracking benchmark to facilitate the research of this direction.
The related research is presently limited by the lack of
a comprehensive video benchmark. Existing grayscalethermal video datasets, like OSU Color-Thermal [5]
and LITIV [6], [7], contain small number of videos
and induce significant bias [11]. In particular, OSU
Color-Thermal [5] and LITIV [6], [7] datasets contain 6,
9 and 4 grayscale-thermal video sequences, respectively.
1 The grayscale-thermal object tracking (GTOT) benchmark: http://hcp.sysu.
edu.cn/resources/.

1057-7149 © 2016 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See http://www.ieee.org/publications_standards/publications/rights/index.html for more information.

5744

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON IMAGE PROCESSING, VOL. 25, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2016

Fig. 1. Illustration of the optimized weights based on the modal reliabilities. The blue and red curves indicate the weights of grayscale and thermal sources,
respectively. One can see that the optimized weights of grayscale-thermal sources are almost consistent with their reliabilities, and thus our method can achieve
robust tracking even though one modality has occasional perturbation or malfunction.

Sparse representation, directly related to compressed sensing [12], has recently attracted much attention in visual
tracking [13]–[16]. Liu and Sun [4] and Wu et al. [10]
also employed the idea of sparse representation to grayscalethermal tracking. More specifically, Wu et al. [10] concatenated the image patches from grayscale and thermal sources
into a one-dimensional vector that is then sparsely represented
in the target template space. Liu and Sun [4] performed
joint sparse representation calculation on both grayscale and
thermal modalities and fused the resultant tracking results
using min operation on the sparse representation coefficients.
These trackers have two main weaknesses: 1) They treated
each modality equally, and thus may significantly limit the
tracking performance in dealing with occasional perturbation
or malfunction of individual sources. 2) They calculated the
observation likelihood of each candidate in whole dictionary
but ignored the discriminative information between object and
background.
In this paper, we propose a novel adaptive tracking
method based on collaborative sparse representation within
the Bayesian filtering framework. For each modality, we
employ the idea of sparse representation for the robustness
against appearance contaminations inherited from the previously sparse trackers in grayscale or thermal videos [13], [17].
Unlike assuming that available modalities contribute equally
in [4] and [10], we pursue a collaborative sparse representation
for adaptive object tracking by introducing the weight variables to represent modal reliabilities, and jointly optimize the
sparse codes and the reliable weights of different modalities in
an online way. Collaborative sparse representation is capable
of dealing with occasional perturbation or malfunction of
individual sources, as shown in Fig. 1. Considering the sparse
representation in each modality as an individual task, our
method is essentially formulated as a multi-task learning
problem. Finally, given the motion model, an object is located
by maximizing the discriminative likelihood based on the proposed collaborative sparse representation in Bayesian filtering
framework.

It is worth mentioning that our method has the following
two characters: i) it is capable of collaboratively integrating
grayscale and thermal information by jointly optimizing the
sparse codes and reliable weights, and thus maintains the
persistence of online tracking in challenging scenarios; ii) it
derives discriminative likelihood from the proposed collaborative sparse representation for Bayesian filtering, which allows
uncertainty reasoning over both grayscale data and thermal
data.
In addition, we build a new grayscale-thermal object tracking (GTOT) benchmark and release it for evaluating tracking methods. The GTOT dataset includes 50 video pairs,
each consisting of a grayscale video and a thermal video.2
As a comprehensive platform, the benchmark provides statistics bias analysis, annotations of visual trajectories, evaluation metrics, and baseline methods with both grayscale and
grayscale-thermal inputs.
This paper makes the following contributions to grayscalethermal tracking and related applications.
• It proposes a novel adaptive tracking approach that
can effectively integrate grayscale and thermal information based on the collaborative sparse representation in Bayesian filtering framework. In particular,
we jointly optimize the sparse codes and the reliable
weights of different modalities in the collaborative sparse
representation.
• It creates one unified grayscale-thermal benchmark,
including: 1) 50 video pairs with analysis of bias statistics, 2) ground truth annotations of every frames in
both grayscale and thermal videos, which are finished by
one person for consistency, 3) two evaluation metrics, and
4) two kinds of baseline methods. This benchmark will
be available online for free academic usage.
• It presents extensive experiments against other stateof-the-art trackers with both grayscale and grayscalethermal inputs. The evaluation results demonstrate the
2 The GTOT webpage: http://hcp.sysu.edu.cn/resources/.

LI et al.: LEARNING COLLABORATIVE SPARSE REPRESENTATION

effectiveness of the proposed approach. Through analyzing quantitative results, we further provide basic insights
and identify the potentials of thermal information in
grayscale-thermal tracking.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In
Section II, the relevant methods to our works are introduced.
In Section III, we describe the details of the proposed
approach. The new grayscale-thermal benchmark is presented
and analyzed in Section IV, and the experimental results are
shown in Section V. The final Section VI concludes this paper.
II. R ELATED W ORK
This work is closely related to the advances in three research
streams and the development of visual benchmarks.
Single-modality object tracking has been extensively studied in computer vision community. The most successful
stories come from the application of the various machine
learning techniques, including SVM [18], boosting [19],
sparse representation [16], subspace learning [20], [21], metric
learning [22] and correlation filter [23], [24]. Most of these
methods, however, only work on grayscale data and thus suffer
from the aforementioned challenges, i.e., low-illumination, bad
weathers, etc.
Multi-modality tracking has drawn a lot of attentions
in the community with the popularity of various sensors,
e.g., depth sensors [25], and thermal infrared sensors [1].
Conaire et al. [1] evaluated appearance model tracking performance of multiple different fusion schemes on manually
annotated multi-modal surveillance videos. Bunyak et al. [9]
presented a moving object detection and tracking system
that fused grayscale and thermal videos within a level set
framework. Conaire et al. [8] proposed a framework that
can efficiently combine features for robust tracking, and
instantiated the fusion of thermal infrared and visible spectrum features in this framework for automated surveillance
applications. The impact of pixel-level fusion of videos from
grayscale-thermal surveillance cameras was investigated by
Cvejic et al. [26] to compare to tracking in single modality
videos. This tracker had been accomplished by means of
a particle filter which fuses a color cue and the structural
similarity measure. A pedestrian tracker designed as a particle filter was introduced by Leykin and Hammoud [27]
based on the proposed background model, in which each
pixel was represented as a multi-modal distribution with
the changing number of modalities for both grayscale and
thermal input. Wu et al. [10] concatenated the image patches
from grayscale and thermal sources into a one-dimensional
vector that is then sparsely represented in the target template
space. Liu and Sun [4] performed joint sparse representation
calculation on both grayscale and thermal modalities and fused
the resultant tracking results using min operation on the sparse
representation coefficients. In contrast, we present a multi-task
collaborative sparse representation for online tracking in this
work.
Sparse representation was widely applied to visual tracking and achieved impressive results because of its capability of suppressing noises and errors [13]–[16], [28].
Mei and Ling [13] first proposed a sparse representation based

5745

tracker to handle the corrupted appearance, and recently it has
been further improved [14]–[16]. Zhang et al. [14] constructed
a multi-task sparse learning method denoted as multi-task
tracking by employing the concept of sparse representation
based on a particular framework. Bao et al. [15] proposed
a fast real time l1 -tracker called the APG-l1 tracker, which
utilized the accelerated proximal gradient algorithm to improve
the efficiency. Zhong et al. [16] developed a sparsity-based
collaborative model for object tracking. The collaborative
model combined a sparsity-based classifier learned from holistic templates and a sparsity-based generative model generated
from local representations. We extend in this work the collaborative model with a Bayesian filter technique for robust
seasoning.
There has been several grayscale-thermal video datasets for
the various vision tasks. For example, OSU Color-Thermal
dataset [5] contains six grayscale-thermal video sequence
pairs recorded from two different locations with only people moving, which is obviously not sufficient to evaluate
grayscale-thermal tracking algorithms. Other two grayscalethermal datasets are collected by Torabi et al. [6], Bilodeau
et al. [7]. Most of them suffer from their limited size, low
diversity and high bias. This work addresses these issues and
creates a reasonable size grayscale-thermal video dataset that
provides comprehensive benchmark.
III. A DAPTIVE T RACKING VIA C OLLABORATIVE
S PARSE R EPRESENTATION
In this section, we introduce an adaptive grayscale-thermal
object tracking method in Bayesian filtering framework.
A. Overview of Our Approach
Our tracking method utilizes Bayesian filtering technique
for uncertainty reasoning. To define the likelihood function,
we represent each object of interest as a set of basis, i.e.,
object templates, and adaptively update the template set on the
fly. To track an object over time, we measure each candidate
region by how well it could be sparsely reconstructed from the
template basis. For grayscale-thermal tracking, we maintain a
template set for each modality. This is actually a multi-task
learning problem if we consider the reconstruction of target
region in each modality as an individual task.
When the target is occasional perturbation or malfunction in
one modality, other modalities can complement information to
avoid model drift in tracking process. Therefore, we introduce
a weighted variable for each modality, and make it optimized
independently.
An object template used consists of two types of basis for
each modality: one from the tracked foreground regions, and
another from the surrounding background regions. We refer
them to positive basis and negative basis, respectively. Thus,
the likelihood function is defined by a discriminative likelihood score based on the reconstruction residual by positive
basis and the reconstruction residual by negative basis. This
discriminative likelihood is capable of capturing the surrounding contrast information as the target is moving in the scene.

5746

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON IMAGE PROCESSING, VOL. 25, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2016

B. Review: Bayesian Filtering

Algorithm 1 Optimization Procedure to Eq. (4)

We first review the Bayesian filtering based tracking
[M]
[M]
method. Let Z[M]
= [z[M]
t
1 , z2 , . . . , zt ] denote the observation set generated from M different modalities, where the
operator [M] indicates the set of integers between 1 and M:
[M] = {1, 2, . . . , M}, e.g., z[M]
= {z1t , z2t , . . . , ztM }. grayscalet
thermal data used in this paper is the special case with M = 2.
Given Z[M]
and the state variable xt , we can compute the
t
optimal state x̂t by Maximum A Posterior (MAP) estimation,
x̂t = arg max P(xt,i |Z[M]
t ),
xt,i

(1)

where xt,i indicates the state of the i -th sample at time t. We
factorize Eq. (1) by Bayesian rules as follows,

[M]
)
∝
P(z
|x
)
P(xt |xt −1)P(xt −1 |Z[M]
P(xt |Z[M]
t
t
t
t −1 )dxt −1 ,
(2)
where P(xt |xt −1 ) and P(z[M]
t |xt ) are the motion model and
the likelihood model, respectively. We utilize six independent
affine parameters, including deformable and translated information, to represent the variation of motion, and model the
dynamic process by the Gaussian distribution,
P(xt |xt −1 ) = N(xt ; xt −1, σ p ),

(3)

where σ p denotes a diagonal covariance matrix whose elements are the variations of the affine parameters, and its setting
depends on motion variations of the target object. Based on the
current tracking result, we predict a set of candidate regions in
the next frame according to the motion model. The likelihood
term P(z[M]
t |xt ) will be defined in a discriminative way to
measure the confidence of each candidate object region.
C. Collaborative Sparse Representation
We describe an object of interest with two template bases
for each modality, one is extracted from the foreground
regions, and another from the surrounding background regions.
d×K denote the candidate
Let Ym = [y1m , y2m , . . . , ym
K] ∈ R
set, where m = 1, . . . , M, d and K denote the feature
dimension and the number of candidates, respectively. The
positive and negative template bases are denoted by T[M]
pos =
[M]
[M] [M]
[M]
[t1[M] , t2[M] , . . . , t[M]
]
and
T
=
[t
,
t
,
.
.
.
,
t
p
neg
p+q ],
p+1 p+2
where p and q indicate the number of positive and negative
templates. Thus, we construct M dictionaries as T[M] =
[M]
[T[M]
pos , Tneg ], and reconstruct the candidate samples as follows:
min

C,α [M]

M

(α m )s

2

m=1

+

M

m=1
[M]

s.t. C  0, α

Ym − Tm Cm 2F + λC2,1

(φ m (α m )s + (1 − α m )s ),
 0,

(4)

where C = [C1 ; C2 ; . . . ; C M ], and C2,1 encourages that one
candidate shares the same pattern across different modalities.
Tm is the dictionary of the m-th modality, which consists
of both positive and negative basis templates of the m-th

modality. α m is the reliable weight for the m-th modality, and
s ∈ (1, ∞) is a fuzzy parameter [29], [30]. λ is a balance
parameter. The nonegative constraint C  0 is used to avoid
the meaningless negative elements, as each element of C represents the similarity between the corresponding candidate and
template. The last term of Eq. (4) is the regularization of α [M] ,
which avoids a degenerate solution of α [M] while allowing
them to be specified independently. φ [M] are the adaptive
parameters which can be set manually if modal discriminative
abilities are known beforehand, and also be updated online to
adapt its variations. In implementation, we empirically update
| max(Ĉm

)−max(Ĉm

)|

opt− pos
opt−neg
), m =
it online as φ m = β exp(−
σφ
1, 2, . . . , M. Herein, β is a balance parameter initialized
based on the reconstruction errors after the first iteration
(see Algorithm 1 for details), and σφ is adaptively set to
m
m
M (| max(Ĉm
be maxm=1
opt − pos )−max(Ĉopt −neg )|). Ĉopt − pos and
m
Ĉopt −neg represent the previous positive and negative coefficients of the optimal candidate on template basis, respectively.
α [M] in Eq. (4) can be adjusted online based on the modal
reliabilities due to the following reasons. 1) In one modality,
the reconstruction error can measure all candidate regions by
how well it could be sparsely reconstructed from the template
basis. Therefore, the qualities of different modalities can be
reflected by their respective reconstruction errors. From the
first term in Eq. (4) one can see that our method places larger
weights on those modalities which have smaller reconstruction errors, resulting in a quality-aware weight optimization.
Fig. 2 (a) shows one sample of this situation. 2) In some
challenging scenarios, reconstruction errors are not enough
to represent modal reliabilities for tracking task, as shown in
Fig. 2 (b). To obtain more reliable weights, we introduce the
adaptive parameters defined by the computed sparse codes to
represent the modal discriminative abilities. This regularization
leads to a discrimination-aware weight optimization. Fig. 2
justifies the effectiveness of the adaptive parameters.

D. Problem Optimization
Though the optimization problem in Eq. (4) is not jointly
convex in C and α [M] , we can utilize the alternate strategy to
optimize one variable with another fixed.

LI et al.: LEARNING COLLABORATIVE SPARSE REPRESENTATION

5747

Given C, Eq. (4) can be written as
min
α [M]

M


((α m )s (

m=1

Ym − Tm Cm 2F
+ φm )
2

+ (1 − α m )s ), s.t. α [M]  0,
which has a closed-form solution:
1
αm =
,
Ym −Tm Cm 2F 1
s−1
1 + (φ m +
)
2

(10)

(11)

where m = 1, 2, . . . , M. The whole optimization procedure
is summarized in Algorithm 1, in which Jk denotes the k-th
objective value of Eq. (4).
E. Discriminative Likelihood

Fig. 2.
Two typical samples with the optimized weights are shown
in (a) and (b), respectively. R, D and W denote the reconstruction error, the
adaptive parameter and the optimized weight, respectively. Subscript 1 is for
grayscale video and 2 for thermal video.

Given fixed α [M] , Eq. (4) can be rewritten as
min
C

M

(α m )s
m=1

2

m
m
m
m
2
ei−
pos = Yi − T pos Ci− pos  F ,

Ym − Tm Cm 2F + λC2,1 + ψ(C), (5)

where ψ(C) is defined as

0, i f Ci j ≥ 0
ψ(C) =
∞, else

,

M

(α m )s
m=1

2

(6)

Ym − Tm Cm 2F ,

G(C) = C2,1 + ψ(C).

(7)

Let initial C be zero, APG utilizes the following update
equations at the k-th iteration:
Ak+1 = Ck + ρ k (Ck − Ck−1 ),
Ck+1 = pr ox λ,t k ,G (Ak+1 − t k F(Ak+1 )),

m
m
2
ei−neg
= Yim − Tm
neg Ci−neg  F .

(8)

where t k denotes constant step size, updated using a line search
algorithm [31], and the extrapolating parameter ρ k is set to be
k
k+3 . The associated proximal optimization problem is defined
as follows:
1
||U − V||2F
pr ox λ,G (V) = arg min G(U) +
U
2λ
1
||U − V||2F ).
= max(0, arg min ||U||2,1 +
U
2λ
(9)
This paper employs the Sparse Modeling Software [32] to
solve the proximal step in Eq. (9).

(12)

For effective fusion of different modalities, we normalize
the constructed errors of each modality into [0, 1]:
êm = (em − min (em ))/(max (em ) − min (em )),

Eq. (5) can be efficiently solved by applying the Accelerated
Proximal Gradient (APG) approach [31]. We denote
F(C) =

For each candidate region, we utilize the reconstruction
residues from both positive basis and negative basis to define
its likelihood, e.g., P(yi |xt ) for i -th candidate yi . In contrast,
the past sparse representation based tracking algorithms usually employ positive template only [13]–[15]. In particular,
their methods are likely to drift when target appearance is
similar to the background [16].
For i -th candidate, we obtain the constructed errors on the
positive and negative templates of m-th modal as

(13)

with m = 1, 2, . . . , M, where min (em ) and max (em ) denote
the minimum and maximum elements of em , respectively.
Note that this normalization method is usually obtain good
performance even though different error vectors have different
normalization rules. In fact, the normalized error vectors are
further combined with the optimized reliable weights, and
thus we can achieve a reliability-aware fusion for different
modalities. The discriminative score of i -th candidate can be
defined as follows,
1
. (14)
P(yi[M] |xt ) ∝
M
m
m
1 + exp{− m=1 α m (êi−neg
− êi−
pos )}
Thus, we could select a candidate region that maximizes the
Eq. (1), which integrates the motion term and the discriminative likelihood term.
F. Implementation Details
For each candidate region, we extract gray features as
follows. First, we resize each candidate or template with fixed
size and partition it into local patches. Then, we quantize the
grayscale values in each local patch into vectors, and concatenate these vectors together as the feature representation.
To this end, the feature could preserve the global structure and
get rid of the local effect, such as appearance variations and
partial occlusions.

5748

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON IMAGE PROCESSING, VOL. 25, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2016

We initialize positive template by collecting multiple
patches from the manually annotated regions. To alleviate
model drifting, we keep the first template in the positive
template set unchanged. In addition, we use the past tracking
result to replace the positive template which has the largest
similarity with the new target appearance, if the largest similarity is larger than a specified threshold σt . Otherwise, we
discard this bad sample without update, as there is a large
appearance change or a part of the target is occluded. To adapt
the variations in different scenes, we define the above threshold
by mean distance of positive samples in initial frame in our
experiments, where is on the other hand, negative templates
are updated dynamically. For each frame, we sample positive
patches from an annular region that keeps a few pixels away
from the center of tracking result.
G. Difference With Related Work
It should be note that the proposed tracking algorithm
based on collaborative sparse representation is significantly
different from recently proposed approaches that use sparse
representation for grayscale-thermal tracking [4], [10].
In [10], the image patches from different sources of each
target candidate are concatenated into a one-dimensional vector that is then sparsely represented in the target template
space. The solution of the sparsity in the representation can be
achieved by solving an l1 -regularized least squares problem,
and the tracking result is then determined by finding the
candidate with the smallest approximation error. While [4]
employs the joint sparse representation on both modalities, and
the resultant tracking results are fused using min operation on
the sparse representation coefficients.
The proposed algorithm is significantly different from [4]
and [10] in several aspects. First, our algorithm assigns each
modality with a weight that describes the modal reliability, and
thus pursues a collaborative sparse representation for adaptive
object tracking. Second, the quality-aware and discriminationaware regularizations on weights make our algorithm robust
in dealing with occasional perturbation or malfunction of
individual sources. Third, our algorithm jointly optimizes the
sparse codes and the weight variables of different modalities
in an online way. The sparse codes are efficiently optimized by
the APG method [31], and the weights are solved with closedform solutions. Finally, our algorithm utilizes reconstruction
residues from both positive and negative basis to define
the discriminative likelihood, which can prevent the model
drift effectively when the target appearance is similar to the
background.
IV. G RAYSCALE -T HERMAL T RACKING B ENCHMARK
In this section, we introduce the newly collected grayscalethermal object tracking (GTOT) benchmark, including dataset
construction with statistics analysis, baseline methods with
both grayscale and grayscale-thermal inputs, and evaluation
metrics.
A. GTOT Benchmark
We collected 50 grayscale-thermal video clips under different scenarios and conditions, e.g., office areas, public roads,

and water pool, etc. Each grayscale video is paired with
one thermal video. We manually annotated them with ground
truth bounding boxes. All annotations are done by a full-time
annotator, to guarantee consistency. Among these videos, there
are 4 videos from OSU Color-Thermal [5] and LITIV [6].
Some typical samples are presented in Fig. 3. We introduce
more details of the dataset in the following.
Hardware Setup. Our recording system consists of an
online thermal image (MAG32) and a CCD camera (SONY
TD-2073). We mount these two cameras in tripods, and make
their views overlapped as much as possible for convenient
alignment.
Alignment. Unlike industry registration in RGBD sensors,
we manually construct the recording system, and develop an
annotation tool to align grayscale-thermal videos in following
way. We uniformly select a number of point correspondences
in keyframe of the video pair, and compute the homography
matrix by the least-square method. Then, the video pair can
be aligned by applying the computed homography matrix to
transform remaining frame pairs. This registration method can
accurately align video pairs due to two main reasons. First, we
carefully choose the planar and non-planar scenes to make the
homography assumption effective. Second, since two camera
views are almost coincident as we made, the transformation
between two views is simple.
Annotation. Due to manually aligning in video pairs, we
annotate the ground truth of dataset by drawing minimum
bounding boxes covering the targets on both grayscale and
thermal frames. In particular, all frames are manually annotated by one person to keep high consistency of dataset. When
occlusion occurs, ground truth box only cover the visible
portion of the target. When the target of one modal frame
is ambiguous while another is distinguishable, we can not
exactly annotate the ground truth of ambiguous one. In such
circumstance, we define its ground truth as the ground truth
of distinguishable one.
Statistics. We captured video pairs in sixteen scenes, including laboratory rooms, campus roads, play grounds and water
pools, etc. We analyze the diversity and bias of this video
dataset from the following aspects.
• Object category. We annotate both rigid objects and
nonrigid objects. Rigid objects, including vehicles and
human heads, usually move fast and have large scale
variation over time. Non-rigid objects, including humans
and swans, have very high degree of freedom, and usually
increase the difficulty in tracking.
• Object size. Small objects frequently appear in visual
surveillance. Tracking of small objects is important yet
challenging because they do not include enough appearance information.
• Illumination condition. The video sequences are recorded
under different weather conditions, including sunshine,
overcast sky, rain and snow, which can bring big challenges in grayscale videos. In addition, the illumination
of some grayscale videos significantly varies over time.
• Thermal crossover.
When the targets have similar
temperature with other objects or background, “thermal crossover” will occur in thermal videos. In such

LI et al.: LEARNING COLLABORATIVE SPARSE REPRESENTATION

5749

Fig. 3. Sample video pairs with annotated attributes from our grayscale-thermal dataset. The first frame of each sequence is shown with initial bounding
box of the target object.

circumstance, thermal information will be ambiguous in
tracking objects.
• Scale variation. Scale adaptation is important to alleviate
model drift. Some of our videos have large scale variation, e.g., a car closing toward the camera. We extract
histogram of relative area to the first frame bounding box
in Fig. 4 (e) to reflect the statistics of scale variation.
• Presence of occlusion. Our videos cover several aspects
of occlusion, e.g., how much the target is occluded, how
long the target is occluded, and the target is completely
occluded in grayscale (thermal) video while can be seen
in thermal (grayscale) video.
• Moving speed. We also take the motion speed of the
target into account. Fig. 4 (d) shows the histogram of
center distance between consecutive frames, which can
reflect the statistics of moving speed.
Table I summarizes attributes of the newly built video
datasets. These fine-grained annotations allow us to analyze
the attributed-sensitive performance of the object tracking
methods. We present the attribute distribution in Fig. 4 (a).
B. Baseline Methods
For evaluating the proposed approach and providing a comprehensive evaluation benchmark, we include some popular
tracking methods as baselines into our GTOT benchmark.
On one hand, thirteen grayscale trackers are presented
to demonstrate their performance in challenging scenarios,
including DSST [33], RPT [35], MUSTer [34], MEEM [36],
PCOM [40], CN [23], STC [37], SCM [16], KCF [24],
CT [39], Struck [18], TLD [38] and MIL [19]. Table II summarizes these baselines. On the other hand, we also implement

TABLE I
L IST OF THE ATTRIBUTES A NNOTATED TO
O UR G RAYSCALE -T HERMAL D ATASET

thirteen grayscale-thermal trackers for identifying the importance of thermal information, where eleven trackers of them
are induced by grayscale trackers (DSST, Struck, SCM, KCF,
CN, CT, MIL, STC, and TLD), and another two trackers are
L1-PF [10] and JSR [4]. In particular, we concatenate features
used in trackers from grayscale and thermal modalities as
grayscale-thermal input of corresponding tracking algorithms.
Note that the model of JSR is the same as Ours-II, i.e.,
the reliable weights are removed in the proposed model,
see Section V-C for more details. However, the main difference between JSR and Ours-II is that Ours-II utilizes
reconstruction residues from both positive and negative basis
to define the discriminative likelihood, while JSR fused the
resultant tracking results using min operation on the sparse
representation coefficients, which might be ineffective when
target appearance is similar to the background.

5750

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON IMAGE PROCESSING, VOL. 25, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2016

Fig. 4. Dataset statistics. (a) Attribute distribution of entire dataset. (b) Distribution of first frame bounding boxes. (c) Distribution of all bounding boxes.
(d) Distance between consecutive frames. (e) Relative area to first frame bounding box. (f) Width-height ratio of all bounding boxes. (g) Width-height ratio
of first frame bounding boxes. (h) Width distribution of all bounding boxes. (i) Height distribution of all bounding boxes.
TABLE II

C. Evaluation Metrics
We utilize two widely used metrics, precision score and success plot, to evaluate the tracking performance. In particular,
the final precision score and success score are defined as the
best one of two modalities.
Precision score. Center Position Error is the Euclidean
distance between the center locations of the tracked object
and the ground truth bounding box, and usually employed to
evaluate tracking precision. However, it will be invalid when
the trackers are failed [19]. To evaluate overall performance,
we employ the precision score used in recent literatures [19],
[24], [41], the percentage of frames whose output location
is within the given threshold distance of ground truth. Since
many targets are small, we set the threshold to be 5 pixels
instead of 20 pixels in other works [19], [24] to obtain the
representative Precision Score (PS).
Success plot. Bounding box overlap is another effective
evaluation metric. Given the output bounding box ro and the
ground truth
box r g , the overlap score is defined
 bounding 

|r
r |
as S = |ro  rg | , where
and
denote the intersection and
o
g
union operators of two regions, and | · | indicates the number
of pixels in the region. Setting a threshold to of overlapping
area, we can calculate the success rate value, the ratio of the
number of successful frames whose overlap S is larger than to .
The success plot can be shown by the success rate at different
to (∈ [0, 1]). Unlike specifying a fixed threshold in CPE, we
employ the Area Under Curve of success plots to define the
Success Score (SS), and rank the tracking algorithms [41].

L IST OF THE BASELINE T RACKERS W ITH THE U SED F EATURES ,
THE M AIN T ECHNIQUES AND THE P UBLISHED I NFORMATION

V. E XPERIMENTS
In this section, we apply the proposed tracking method
on our GTOT benchmark and compare with other popular
tracking methods. The source codes, evaluation metrics, result
figures will be provided with the benchmark for public usage
in the community.
A. Parameter Settings
We detail the parameter settings of Algorithm 1 as follows. The balance parameter λ is to control the sparsity of
reconstruction coefficients on both modalities. The results
with different λ are shown in Table III, and thus we set it

LI et al.: LEARNING COLLABORATIVE SPARSE REPRESENTATION

5751

Fig. 5. Success plots of the proposed trackers with state-of-the-art trackers on the entire dataset and several subsets. Herein, baseline trackers are with only
grayscale input, and top ten trackers are shown in the legend for clarity. (a) Entire dataset. (b) OCC subset. (c) LSV subset. (d) FM subset. (e) LI subset.
(f) TC subset. (g) SO subset. (h) DEF subset.
TABLE III
P RECISION S CORE /S UCCESS S CORE (PS/SS) OF THE P ROPOSED
M ETHOD W ITH D IFFERENT PARAMETERS

are set to be 20 and 200, respectively. σt determines that
whether one tracking result is used to replace one template
in the positive template set or not. Smaller σt will keep
the adaptation of the template set to variations of object
appearance, while easily introducing noisy templates, and vice
versa. Therefore, we set it to be 1.5 and 0.8 for grayscale and
thermal modalities for balancing the adaptation and clearness
of the positive template set, respectively.
B. Comparison Results

to be λ = 0.001. The fuzzy parameter s ∈ (1, ∞) [30]
is set to be 2 by observing the performance with different
s in Table III. We resize each sample to be a region of
32 × 32 pixels, and evenly partition each patch into
8 × 8 patches for better performance, as shown in Table III.
Note that the sizes of the normalized region and the partitioned
patch are important for robust tracking. This is because that
the feature representations generally play a crucial role in
visual tracking task. In addition, s controls the variations
among reliable weights, and its influences to the performance
demonstrate the significance of the introduced modal reliable
weights.
The negative and positive templates are updated in each
frame to adapt the appearance variations of surrounding background and target object in time, respectively. In Bayesian
filtering, the number of candidates is generally determined by
the trade-off between the computational cost and the variance
of the resulting estimates. Some works set a different number
for each video sequence according to the motion variations of
target object, but we fix it to be 200 on entire dataset for more
fair comparison. Similarly, the positive and negative samples

To justify the importance of thermal information and
the effectiveness of the proposed approach, we evaluate the compared methods with grayscale or grayscalethermal inputs, where the baselines have been introduced
in Section IV-B.
Overall performances. We first report the success plots
and Success Score (SS) of grayscale trackers on entire dataset
in Fig. 5 (a) and Table IV, respectively. From the evaluation
results, we can observe that the proposed approach substantially outperforms the baseline trackers. This comparison
clearly demonstrates the effectiveness of our approach for
exploiting thermal information. The success plots and SS of
grayscale-thermal trackers on entire dataset are then presented
in Fig. 6 (a) and Table V respectively for justifying the
effectiveness of the proposed method in adaptively exploiting grayscale-thermal information. We also employ Precision
Score (PS) to evaluate the overall performance, as shown in
Table VI. The results further suggest that our method can
achieve robust tracking in challenging scenarios by employing
grayscale-thermal information, and outperforms other stateof-the-art trackers with both grayscale and grayscale-thermal
inputs.

5752

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON IMAGE PROCESSING, VOL. 25, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2016

Fig. 6. Success plots of the proposed trackers with state-of-the-art trackers on the entire dataset and several subsets. Herein, baseline trackers are with
grayscale-thermal input, and top ten trackers are shown in the legend for clarity. (a) Entire dataset. (b) OCC subset. (c) LSV subset. (d) FM subset.
(e) LI subset. (f) TC subset. (g) SO subset. (h) DEF subset.
TABLE IV
S UCCESS S CORE (SS, %) OF S UCCESS P LOTS AND C ORRESPONDING R ANKINGS ( IN PARENTHESIS ) W ITH D IFFERENT ATTRIBUTES . H EREIN ,
BASELINE T RACKERS A RE W ITH O NLY G RAYSCALE I NPUT. T HE B OLD F ONTS OF R ESULTS I NDICATE THE B EST P ERFORMANCE ,
AND THE F INAL R ANK I S THE AVERAGE R ANK OF ALL ATTRIBUTES

Attribute-based Performance. For evaluating trackers on
subsets with different attributes to facilitate analysis of performance on different challenging factors, We present the success
plots of all attributes in Fig. 5 (b-i) and Table IV for grayscale
trackers, and Fig. 6 (b-i) and Table V for grayscale-thermal
trackers, respectively.
For grayscale trackers, our method substantially outperforms all baselines in all attributes, demonstrating the effectiveness of our method in various challenging factors. The
results also demonstrate the importance of thermal information
in visual tracking, especially in LI and SO. In such scenarios,
thermal sources can provide more reliable information.
For grayscale-thermal trackers, the proposed method
achieve superior performance over other baselines in all

attributes except for DEF, further validating effectiveness of
our tracking method. In particular, for occasional perturbation
or malfunction of one modality (e.g., LI, TC and SO), our
method can effectively incorporate another modal information
to track objects robustly.
C. Component Analysis
To justify the significance of the main components of
the proposed model, we implement two special versions for
comparative analysis, including: 1) Ours-I, that set φ = 0 to
remove the adaptive parameter on α [M] in Eq. 4. 2) Ours1
(m = 1, 2, .., M) to remove the weight
II, that fix α m = M
variables in Eq. 4.

LI et al.: LEARNING COLLABORATIVE SPARSE REPRESENTATION

5753

TABLE V
S UCCESS S CORE (SS, %) OF S UCCESS P LOTS AND C ORRESPONDING R ANKINGS ( IN PARENTHESIS ) W ITH D IFFERENT ATTRIBUTES . H EREIN ,
BASELINE T RACKERS A RE W ITH G RAYSCALE -T HERMAL I NPUT. T HE B OLD F ONTS OF R ESULTS I NDICATE THE B EST P ERFORMANCE ,
AND THE F INAL R ANK I S THE AVERAGE R ANK OF ALL ATTRIBUTES

TABLE VI
P RECISION S CORE (PS) AND F RAME P ER S ECOND (FPS) OF THE
C OMPARED T RACKERS W ITH B OTH G RAYSCALE (G) AND
G RAYSCALE -T HERMAL (G-T) I NPUTS ON THE E NTIRE
D ATASET. T HE B OLD F ONTS OF R ESULTS I NDICATE
THE B EST P ERFORMANCE

Fig. 7. One failure case of our method. W1 and W2 denote the optimized
weights of grayscale and thermal sources, respectively. The third row presents
the tracking results of other grayscale-thermal methods.

The evaluation results are reported in Fig. 6 and Table V, VI,
and we can draw the following conclusions. 1) The complete
algorithm outperforms Ours-I. This justifies the contribution
of the proposed adaptive parameter φ on α [M] . 2) Our method
substantially outperforms Ours-II. This demonstrates the significance of the introduced weighted variables.
It is worth mentioning that the reasonable estimations of
reliable weights are important for robust adaptive tracking.
In general, if a modality is unreliable or ambiguous, our
approach will automatically assign it with a low weight
to alleviate the effects of this modality in tracking. Without such weighting schema, the unreliable information or
noises might contaminate the object model, leading to model

TABLE VII
C OMPARISON R ESULTS (PS/SS) OF THE P ROPOSED A PPROACH W ITH
S EVERAL T YPICAL S ETTINGS OF THE R ELIABLE W EIGHTS (G/T).
H EREIN , O NE S ETTING D ENOTES THAT THE R ELIABLE W EIGHTS
OF G RAYSCALE AND T HERMAL M ODALITIES A RE
F IXED ON E NTIRE D ATASET

drifting eventually. While it is possible to learn improper
weights as shown in Fig. 7, the proposed method can work
well for most of challenging scenes. To empirically justify
the effectiveness of our approach, Table VII presents the

5754

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON IMAGE PROCESSING, VOL. 25, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2016

Fig. 8. Output bounding boxes of trackers with grayscale and grayscale-thermal inputs. The first two sequence pairs denote the grayscale tracking results,
and the last two sequence pairs indicate the grayscale-thermal tracking results.

comparison results of the proposed approach with 5 typical
settings of reliable weights, which further validates the effectiveness of the weight estimation of the proposed approach.
We also present one failure case generated by our method in
Fig. 7. The reliable weights sometimes are wrongly estimated
due to the effect of clutter background. From Eq. 4, we can
see that the reliable weight of one modality is determined
by its reconstruction error and adaptive parameter, i.e., the
smaller reconstruction error and adaptive parameter are, the
larger of the reliable weight is. When a more reliable modality
has bigger reconstruction error (e.g., Fig. 2) and adaptive
parameter, the computed reliable weight will be smaller.

In such circumstance, our method will generate wrong tracking
results. In Fig. 7, the thermal information is reliable to track
the target object, but most grayscale-thermal methods are
failed. This problem could be tackled by incorporating the
measure of background clutter in optimizing reliable weights,
and will be addressed in our future work.
In addition to reliable weight computation, our approach
has another major limitation. The real-time tracking performance is very important for visual processing systems, but
our algorithm has high computational cost due to inefficient
optimization to the proposed model. In future work, we
will alleviate it from two aspects. First, we will develop a

LI et al.: LEARNING COLLABORATIVE SPARSE REPRESENTATION

fast solver to l1 -regularized representation [42]. Second, we
will propose a strategy to reduce the number of sampled
candidates while improving their qualities, which can improve
the tracking efficiency without losing much accuracy.
D. Discussions
We observe from the evaluations that integrating grayscale
data and thermal data will boost tracking performance. The
improvements are even bigger while encountering certain
challenges, i.e., low illuminations, small objects and thermal
crossover, demonstrating the complementary benefits from
grayscale-thermal data.
We can also observe that some modal information is redundant, and directly utilizing both of their information will
lead to bad tracking results, as shown in Table VI. We can
address this issue from two aspects. First, adaptively integrating different modal information (Our method and Ours-I) can
automatically determine the contribution weights of different
modalities to alleviate effect of redundant information. Second,
feature reduction or selection techniques (e.g., CN [23] and
SCM [16]) can compress or remove some useless information
and achieve more robust tracking performance.
In addition, we found from evaluations that scale adaptation
(e.g., the proposed methods, DSST [33] and SCM [16]) and
context information (e.g., Struck [18] and STC [37]) are
crucial for effective grayscale-thermal tracking.
VI. C ONCLUSIONS
In this work, we proposed a robust adaptive tracking
algorithm that integrated collaborative sparse representation
in Bayesian framework, and built a comprehensive video
benchmark (GTOT) for grayscale-thermal tracking. Extensive
experiments on the new benchmarks demonstrated superior
performance over other popular tracking methods. In future
work, we will improve the efficiency of our method for
realtime command, and expand the video dataset to include
more challenging scenes, and evaluate more popular trackers
as parts of the benchmark platform.
R EFERENCES
[1] C. O. Conaire, N. E. Connor, E. Cooke, and A. F. Smeaton, “Comparison
of fusion methods for thermo-visual surveillance tracking,” in Proc. Int.
Conf. Inf. Fusion, Jul. 2006, pp. 1–7.
[2] R. Gade and T. B. Moeslund, “Thermal cameras and applications: A
survey,” Mach. Vis. Appl., vol. 25, no. 1, pp. 245–262, Jan. 2014.
[3] C. Li, X. Wang, L. Zhang, J. Tang, H. Wu, and L. Lin, “Weld: Weighted
low-rank decomposition for robust grayscale-thermal foreground detection,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol., to be published, doi:
10.1109/TCSVT.2016.2556586, 2016, in press.
[4] H. Liu and F. Sun, “Fusion tracking in color and infrared images
using joint sparse representation,” Sci. China Inf. Sci., vol. 55, no. 3,
pp. 590–599, Mar. 2012.
[5] J. W. Davis and V. Sharma, “Background-subtraction using contourbased fusion of thermal and visible imagery,” Comput. Vis. Image
Understand., vol. 106, no. 2, pp. 162–182, 2007.
[6] A. Torabi, G. Masse, and G.-A. Bilodeau, “An iterative integrated
framework for thermal–visible image registration, sensor fusion, and
people tracking for video surveillance applications,” Comput. Vis. Image
Understand., vol. 116, no. 2, pp. 210–221, 2012.
[7] G.-A. Bilodeau, A. Torabi, P.-L. St-Charles, and D. Riahi, “Thermal–visible registration of human silhouettes: A similarity measure performance
evaluation,” Inf. Phys. Technol., vol. 64, pp. 79–86, Mar. 2014.

5755

[8] C. O. Conaire, N. E. Connor, and A. Smeaton, “Thermo-visual feature
fusion for object tracking using multiple spatiogram trackers,” Mach.
Vis. Appl., vol. 19, no. 5, pp. 483–494, Oct. 2008.
[9] F. Bunyak, K. Palaniappan, S. K. Nath, and G. Seetharaman, “Geodesic
active contour based fusion of visible and infrared video for persistent
object tracking,” in Proc. IEEE Workshop Appl. Comput. Vis., Feb. 2007,
pp. 35–42.
[10] Y. Wu, E. Blasch, G. Chen, L. Bai, and H. Ling, “Multiple source data
fusion via sparse representation for robust visual tracking,” in Proc. Int.
Conf. Inf. Fusion, Jul. 2011, pp. 1–8.
[11] A. Torralba and A. A. Efros, “Unbiased look at dataset bias,” in
Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2011,
pp. 1521–1528.
[12] D. L. Donoho, “Compressed sensing,” IEEE Trans. Inf. Theory, vol. 52,
no. 4, pp. 1289–1306, Apr. 2006.
[13] X. Mei and H. Ling, “Robust visual tracking using L1 minimization,”
in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Comput. Vis., Oct. 2009, pp. 1436–1443.
[14] T. Zhang, B. Ghanem, S. Liu, and N. Ahuja, “Robust visual tracking via
multi-task sparse learning,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern
Recognit., Jun. 2012, pp. 2042–2049.
[15] C. Bao, Y. Wu, H. Ling, and H. Ji, “Real time robust L1 tracker using
accelerated proximal gradient approach,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput.
Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2012, pp. 1830–1837.
[16] W. Zhong, H. Lu, and M.-H. Yang, “Robust object tracking via sparsitybased collaborative model,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern
Recognit., Jun. 2012, pp. 1838–1845.
[17] C. Li, S. Hu, S. Gao, and J. Tang, “Real-time grayscale-thermal tracking
via laplacian sparse representation,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Multimedia
Modelling, Jan. 2016, pp. 54–65.
[18] S. Hare, A. Saffari, and P. H. S. Torr, “Struck: Structured output
tracking with kernels,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Comput. Vis., Nov. 2011,
pp. 263–270.
[19] B. Babenko, M.-H. Yang, and S. Belongie, “Robust object tracking with
online multiple instance learning,” IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach.
Intell., vol. 33, no. 8, pp. 1619–1632, Aug. 2011.
[20] C. Li, L. Lin, W. Zuo, S. Yan, and J. Tang, “Sold: Sub-optimal lowrank decomposition for efficient video segmentation,” in Proc. IEEE
Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., Jun. 2015, pp. 5519–5527.
[21] C. Li, L. Lin, W. Zuo, W. Wang, and J. Tang, “An approach to streaming
video segmentation with sub-optimal video segmentation,” IEEE Trans.
Image Process., vol. 25, no. 5, pp. 1947–1960, May 2016.
[22] N. Jiang, W. Liu, and Y. Wu, “Order determination and sparsityregularized metric learning adaptive visual tracking,” in Proc.
IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2012,
pp. 1956–1963.
[23] M. Danelljan, F. S. Khan, M. Felsberg, and J. Van De Weijer, “Adaptive
color attributes for real-time visual tracking,” in Proc. IEEE Conf.
Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), 2014, pp. 1090–1097.
[24] J. F. Henriques, R. Caseiro, P. Martins, and J. Batista, “High-speed
tracking with kernelized correlation filters,” IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal.
Mach. Intell., vol. 37, no. 3, pp. 583–596, Mar. 2015.
[25] S. Song and J. Xiao, “Tracking revisited using RGBD camera: Unified
benchmark and baselines,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Comput. Vis. (ICCV),
Dec. 2013, pp. 233–240.
[26] N. Cvejic et al., “The effect of pixel-level fusion on object tracking
in multi-sensor surveillance video,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis.
Pattern Recognit., Jun. 2007, pp. 1–7.
[27] A. Leykin and R. Hammoud, “Pedestrian tracking by fusion of
thermal-visible surveillance videos,” Mach. Vis. Appl., vol. 21, no. 4,
pp. 587–595, Jun. 2010.
[28] Y. Wu, H. Ling, J. Yu, F. Li, X. Mei, and E. Cheng, “Blurred target
tracking by blur-driven tracker,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Comput. Vis.,
Nov. 2011, pp. 1100–1107.
[29] S. Bahrampour, A. Ray, N. M. Nasrabadi, and K. W. Jenkins, “Qualitybased multimodal classification using tree-structured sparsity,” in Proc.
IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., 2014, pp. 4114–4121.
[30] J. C. Bezdek, R. Ehrlich, and W. Full, “FCM: The fuzzy c-means
clustering algorithm,” Comput. Geosci., vol. 10, no. 2, pp. 191–203,
1984.
[31] N. Parikh and S. Boyd, “Proximal algorithms,” Found. Trends Optim.,
vol. 1, no. 3, pp. 123–231, 2013.
[32] R. Jenatton, J. Mairal, G. Obozinski, and F. Bach, “Proximal methods
for sparse hierarchical dictionary learning,” in Proc. Int. Conf. Mach.
Learn. (ICML), 2010, pp. 487–494.
[33] M. Danelljan, G. Hager, F. Khan, and M. Felsberg, “Accurate scale
estimation for robust visual tracking,” in Proc. Brit. Mach. Vis.
Conf. (BMVC), 2014, pp. 1–11.

5756

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON IMAGE PROCESSING, VOL. 25, NO. 12, DECEMBER 2016

[34] Z. Hong, Z. Chen, C. Wang, X. Mei, D. Prokhorov, and D. Tao, “MUltistore tracker (MUSTer): A cognitive psychology inspired approach to
object tracking,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), Jun. 2015, pp. 749–758.
[35] Y. Li, J. Zhu, and S. C. Hoi, “Reliable patch trackers: Robust visual
tracking by exploiting reliable patches,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput.
Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), 2015, pp. 353–361.
[36] J. Zhang, S. Ma, and S. Sclaroff, “MEEM: Robust tracking via multiple
experts using entropy minimization,” in Proc. Eur. Conf. Comput. Vis.,
2014, pp. 188–203.
[37] K. Zhang, L. Zhang, Q. Liu, D. Zhang, and M.-H. Yang, “Fast visual
tracking via dense spatio-temporal context learning,” in Proc. Eur. Conf.
Comput. Vis., 2014, pp. 127–141.
[38] Z. Kalal, K. Mikolajczyk, and J. Matas, “Tracking-learning-detection,”
IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell., vol. 34, no. 7, pp. 1409–1422,
Jul. 2012.
[39] K. Zhang, L. Zhang, and M.-H. Yang, “Real-time compressive tracking,”
in Proc. Eur. Conf. Comput. Vis., 2012, pp. 864–877.
[40] D. Wang and H. Lu, “Visual tracking via probability continuous outlier
model,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR),
2014, pp. 3478–3485.
[41] Y. Wu, J. Lim, and M.-H. Yang, “Online object tracking: A benchmark,”
in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit. (CVPR), 2013,
pp. 2411–2418 .
[42] Z. Zhang and V. Saligrama. (Jun. 2014). “Rapid: Rapidly accelerated proximal gradient algorithms for convex minimization.” [Online].
Available: https://arxiv.org/abs/1406.4445

Chenglong Li received the M.S. and Ph.D. degrees
from the School of Computer Science and
Technology, Anhui University, Hefei, China,
in 2013 and 2016, respectively. From 2014 to 2015,
he was a Visiting Student with the School of Data
and Computer Science, Sun Yat-sen University.
He has authored over 20 academic papers, including
seven peer-reviewed articles in top-tier conferences
and leading journals. His current research interests
include computer vision, machine learning, and
intelligent video analysis.

Hui Cheng received the B.Eng. degree in electrical engineering from Yan Shan University,
Qinhuangdao, China, in 1998, the M.Phil. degree
in electrical and electronic engineering from
The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Hong Kong, in 2001, and the Ph.D. degree
in electrical and electronic engineering from The
University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, in 2005.
She was a Post-Doctoral Fellow with the Department
of Information Engineering, The Chinese University
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, from 2006 to 2007.
She is currently an Associate Professor with the School of Information Science
and Technology, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China. Her current
research interests include intelligent robots and networked control.

Shiyi Hu received the B.S. degree in information
and computing science from Sun Yat-sen University,
Guangzhou, China, in 2014, where he is currently
pursuing the M.S. degree in computer science and
technology. His current research interest is computer
vision with a focus on visual tracking and multiobject tracking.

Xiaobai Liu received the Ph.D. degree from the
Huazhong University of Science and Technology,
Wuhan, China. He was a Post-Doctoral Research
Fellow with the Center for Vision, Cognition,
Learning and Art, University of California at
Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA. He is currently an Assistant Professor with the Department
of Computer Science, San Diego State University.
He has authored over 30 peer-reviewed articles in
top-tier conferences and leading journals. His current
research interests include scene parsing with a variety of topics such as, joint inference for recognition and reconstruction, and
commonsense reasoning. He received a number of awards for his academic
contribution, including the 2013 Outstanding Thesis Award from the China
Computer Federation.

Jin Tang received the B.Eng. degree in automation
and the Ph.D. degree in computer science from
Anhui University, Hefei, China, in 1999 and 2007,
respectively. He is currently a Professor with the
School of Computer Science and Technology, Anhui
University. His current research interests include
computer vision, pattern recognition, and machine
learning.

Liang Lin (M’09–SM’15) received the B.S. and
Ph.D. degrees from the Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing, China, in 1999 and 2008, respectively.
From 2008 to 2009, he was a Post-Doctoral Research
Fellow with the Department of Statistics, University
of California at Los Angeles. He is currently a
Full Professor with the School of Data and Computer science, Sun Yat-sen University, China. He
has authored or co-authored over 100 papers in toptier academic journals and conferences. His research
focuses on new models, algorithms, and systems for
intelligent processing and understanding of visual data, such as images and
videos. He was a recipient of the Best Paper Runner-Up Award in ACM
NPAR 2010, the Google Faculty Award in 2012, and the Best Student Paper
Award in the IEEE ICME 2014. He has been serving as an Associate Editor of
the IEEE T RANSACTIONS H UMAN –M ACHINE S YSTEMS . He was supported
by several promotive programs or funds for his works, such as the NSFC
Excellent Young Scholars Program in 2016.

