IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 27, NO. 4, APRIL 2017

725

Weighted Low-Rank Decomposition for Robust
Grayscale-Thermal Foreground Detection
Chenglong Li, Xiao Wang, Lei Zhang, Jin Tang, Hejun Wu, and Liang Lin
Abstract— This paper investigates how to fuse grayscale
and thermal video data for detecting foreground objects in
challenging scenarios. To this end, we propose an intuitive
yet effective method called weighted low-rank decomposition (WELD), which adaptively pursues the cross-modality
low-rank representation. Specifically, we form two data matrices
by accumulating sequential frames from the grayscale and the
thermal videos, respectively. Within these two observing matrices,
WELD detects moving foreground pixels as sparse outliers
against the low-rank structure background and incorporates
the weight variables to make the models of two modalities
complementary to each other. The smoothness constraints of
object motion are also introduced in WELD to further improve
the robustness to noises. For optimization, we propose an
iterative algorithm to efficiently solve the low-rank models with
three subproblems. Moreover, we utilize an edge-preserving
filtering-based method to substantially speed up WELD while
preserving its accuracy. To provide a comprehensive evaluation
benchmark of grayscale-thermal foreground detection, we create
a new data set including 25 aligned grayscale-thermal video
pairs with high diversity. Our extensive experiments on both the
newly created data set and the public data set OSU3 suggest
that WELD achieves superior performance and comparable
efficiency against other state-of-the-art approaches.
Index Terms— Adaptive fusion, foreground detection,
grayscale-thermal processing, low-rank representation, video
surveillance.

I. I NTRODUCTION

F

OREGROUND detection (sometimes called moving
object detection) is a fundamental problem in computer
vision, and plays a critical role in numerous vision
applications, such as object tracking, activity recognition, and
video indexing. Although much progress has been made in
recent years, it is still a challenging problem in complex and

Manuscript received August 27, 2015; revised December 18, 2015 and
March 9, 2016; accepted April 14, 2016. Date of publication April 20, 2016;
date of current version April 3, 2017. This work was supported in part by
the National Natural Science Foundation of China under Grant 61472002
and Grant 61370185, in part by the Natural Science Foundation of Anhui
Higher Education Institution of China under Grant KJ2015A110, in part by
the Guangdong Natural Science Foundation under Grant S2013010013432
and Grant S2013010015940, in part by the Program of Guangzhou Zhujiang
Star of Science and Technology under Grant 2013J2200067, and in part by
the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central Universities. The work of
L. Lin was supported by the Guangdong National Science Foundation for
Distinguished Young Scholars. This paper was recommended by Associate
Editor Y. Liu. (Chenglong Li and Xiao Wang contributed equally to this work.)
(Corresponding author: Liang Lin.)
C. Li, X. Wang, L. Zhang, and J. Tang are with the School of Computer
Science and Technology, Anhui University, Hefei 230601, China (e-mail:
lcl1314@foxmail.com; xwang0717@foxmail.com; lzhang15@foxmail.com;
tj@ahu.edu.cn).
H. Wu and L. Lin are with the School of Data and Computer
Science, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510006, China (e-mail:
wuhejun@mail.sysu.edu.cn; linliang@ieee.org).
Color versions of one or more of the figures in this paper are available
online at http://ieeexplore.ieee.org.
Digital Object Identifier 10.1109/TCSVT.2016.2556586

challenging scenarios, like low illumination (LI), background
clutter (BC), as well as bad weather (BW).
Fortunately, thermal infrared sensors can provide
complementary information for visible spectrum sensors
to alleviate the effects of the above factors [1]. Thermal
sensors are a kind of passive sensors that capture the infrared
radiation emitted by all objects with a temperature above
absolute zero, and thus the imaging procedure is not sensitive
to light conditions. In addition, this type of sensor, originally
developed for military use (e.g., surveillance during night),
has recently opened up a broader field of applications due
to decrease in its price [1], [2]. Meanwhile, visible spectrum
sensors may be more effective to separate objects from the
background when they have similar temperatures [also called
thermal crossover (TC)]. Therefore, grayscale and thermal
data can complement information to each other to achieve
more robust moving object detection in challenging scenarios.
This paper will address the following issues in
grayscale-thermal foreground detection through existing
works.
1) How to collaboratively employ grayscale-thermal
information to achieve robust foreground detection.
In many scenarios, grayscale and thermal data can
complement each other, and thus the effective fusion of
these two modalities is important to detect foreground
objects robustly. Existing approaches [3]–[6] employed
some cues, such as contour and saliency, to integrate
grayscale and thermal data for detecting moving objects.
These methods were difficult to handle challenging
scenarios. The others preferred to exploit thermal
information to assist in grayscale detection and ignored
the complementary benefit of the grayscale source when
the thermal information was crossover.
2) How to efficiently and robustly detect moving objects
in challenging scenarios. Foreground detection is
always cast as a prerequisite step for subsequent
applications, which demands an efficient and robust
solution. Some fast methods, such as Gaussian mixture
model (GMM) [7], [8], ViBe [9], and nonparametric
models [10], [11], have been applied to many practical
systems due to their efficient solutions. However, they
are easy to produce poor performance in challenging
scenarios. Other complex approaches [12]–[15] can
obtain robust foreground detection results in various
challenging scenarios, but usually have long latencies.
3) How to create a comprehensive grayscale-thermal
benchmark for moving object detection. Given the
potentials of grayscale-thermal data, however, the related
research is limited by the lack of a comprehensive video

1051-8215 © 2016 IEEE. Personal use is permitted, but republication/redistribution requires IEEE permission.
See http://www.ieee.org/publications_standards/publications/rights/index.html for more information.

Authorized licensed use limited to: SUN YAT-SEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on February 22,2021 at 18:34:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

726

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 27, NO. 4, APRIL 2017

Fig. 1. Typical results generated by WELD. (a) and (b) First row: grayscale and thermal frames, respectively, and second row: WELD results with
equal quality weights and WELD results, respectively. The optimized quality weights of grayscale and thermal videos in (a) are 0.32 and 1.81, while in
(b) are 0.43 and 0.36, respectively.

benchmark. On the one hand, existing grayscale-thermal
data sets, like OSU Color-Thermal [16] and
LITIV [17], [18], contain a small number of videos with
less challenge and induce a significant bias. In addition,
these data sets are used for different computer vision
tasks, such as registration, fusion, and tracking, and
thus are not suitable for addressing different challenges
in moving object detection. On the other hand, the lack
of a grayscale-thermal evaluation platform also limits
the research progress of grayscale-thermal foreground
detection.
Aiming at addressing the above issues and motivated by
the effectiveness of low-rank representation on background
modeling, we propose a general algorithm, called weighted
low-rank decomposition (WELD), which integrates grayscale
and thermal data for robust moving object detection. Given
two data matrices by accumulating sequential frames from
the grayscale and thermal videos, WELD adaptively pursues a
cross-modality low-rank representation. More specifically, the
foreground object pixels are jointly detected as sparse outliers
in grayscale-thermal videos against the low-rank structure
backgrounds. In addition, we also integrate the contiguous
constraints, which are usually employed for modeling the
spatial distribution of moving objects into WELD to improve
its robustness to noise.
For adaptively integrating information from different
modalities, we develop a quality-based fusion scheme to
detect moving objects robustly. In particular, we incorporate
the weight variables into WELD to make the models of
two modalities complementary to each other. The weight
variable of one modality represents its reliability, and thus
WELD achieves an adaptive fusion based on the reliabilities of
different modalities. The effectiveness of introducing quality
weights in WELD is shown in Fig. 1. For optimization,
we efficiently solve WELD by iteratively optimizing:
1) the background matrices by SOFT-IMPUTE algorithm [19];
2) the foreground matrix by graph cut [20], [21]; and 3) the
weight variables with closed-form solutions.

To further improve the practicality of WELD, we substantially speed up WELD by an edge-preserving-based method
while preserving its accuracy. Specifically, we first perform
WELD on a gradient-driven-based downsampled video, and
then employ an edge-preserving upsampling [22]–[24] to
recover the full-resolution detection results. In this paper, we
call the fast version of WELD as F-WELD.
We also create a grayscale-thermal data set with 25 video
pairs (3 video pairs from [16], [17] for high diversity) recorded
under different challenging scenes. The ground truths of all the
frames are aligned and annotated by one person to ensure high
consistency.1 The annotated data set, implemented baselines,
and evaluation metrics provide a comprehensive benchmark
for grayscale-thermal foreground detection.
This paper makes the following contributions to video
processing and related applications.
1) It proposes a general framework for detecting moving
objects in multimodal videos. To the best of our
knowledge, we are the first to address the problem of
grayscale-thermal foreground detection in an adaptive
low-rank framework. Our framework is able to deal
with challenging scenarios by adaptively leveraging
complementary information about different modalities,
and substantially outperforms other moving object
detection approaches on both the newly created data set
and the public data set OSU3 [16].
2) It presents a fast algorithm to greatly speed up WELD.
In particular, this fast algorithm preserves the accuracy
by the advantage of utilizing the frame structural
information.
3) It creates a standard grayscale-thermal benchmark for
grayscale-thermal foreground detection. This benchmark
will be beneficial for further study of foreground
detection in grayscale-thermal videos. We will release
the evaluation platform online for free academic usage.
1 Grayscale-thermal data set webpage: http://vision.sysu.edu.cn/projects/
grayscale_thermal_detection/.

Authorized licensed use limited to: SUN YAT-SEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on February 22,2021 at 18:34:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

LI et al.: WELD FOR ROBUST GRAYSCALE-THERMAL FOREGROUND DETECTION

The rest of this paper is organized as follows. In Section II,
the methods relevant to our WELD are introduced.
We describe the details of WELD and F-WELD in
Sections III and IV, respectively. The creation of a grayscalethermal benchmark and the experiment results on this benchmark are shown in Sections V and VI, respectively. Section VII
concludes this paper.

727

TABLE I
C HALLENGES OF O UR D ATA S ET A GAINST O THER P UBLIC
G RAYSCALE -T HERMAL D ATA S ETS . H EREIN , THE
C HALLENGES I NCLUDE IM, LI, BW, IS, DS, BC,
AND TC. F OR M ORE D ETAILS , P LEASE
R EFER TO TABLE II

II. R ELATED W ORK
This paper is closely related to the advances in research
streams and the development of a grayscale-thermal data set
for moving object detection.
Single-modality foreground detection has been extensively
studied over the past decades. The representative methods
include GMMs [7], nonparameter algorithms [9], fuzzy-based
methods [25], multiple features-based methods [26], low-rank
representation models [13], [27]–[30], and neural and neurofuzzy methods [31]. These works focus on a single-modality
video sequence (thermal information can be viewed as the gray
value of image), and thus will suffer from the aforementioned
challenges, i.e., LI, BW, etc.
Multimodality foreground detection has drawn more and
more attention in the community [3], [4], [6], [16] with
the popularity of various sensors, such as depth sensors
and thermal infrared sensors [32]. Davis and Sharma [3]
provided a framework for effectively combining information
from thermal and visible videos. They first identified the initial
regions-of-interest in the thermal domain, and then propagated
it into the grayscale domain. The contour saliency map was
obtained by combining both thermal and grayscale information
on the detected regions-of-interest, and further flood-filled
to produce silhouettes. Han and Bhanu [4] proposed a
hierarchical scheme to automatically align synchronous
grayscale and thermal frames, and probabilistically combined
cues from registered grayscale-thermal frames for improving
human silhouette detection. Davis and Sharma [16] proposed
a new background-subtraction technique fusing contours
from thermal and grayscale videos for persistent object
detection in urban settings. Using the region saliency detection
method in [6], infrared and visible images were integrated
with different strategies applied for salient and nonsalient
regions. The background subtraction method is then employed
using GMM.
Low-rank representation has been recently applied to
background modeling and achieved impressive results in
challenging scenarios. The framework of robust principal
component analysis (RPCA) has drawn a lot of attention
in computer vision. The seminal work in [12] showed
that the low-rank model can be recovered from unknown
corruption patterns by principal component pursuit (PCP), a
convex program. The examples in [12] justify the superior
performance of PCP against the previous methods of RPCA
and its promising potential for background subtraction.
Zhou et al. [33] proposed stable PCP (SPCP), an extension
of PCP, to handle both sparse gross errors and small
entrywise noises. PCP and SPCP relaxed l0 -penalty to
l1 -penalty for convex optimization. However, the l0 -penalty

works effectively for sparse noise detection in regression,
while l1 -penalty does not [34]. The work, DEtecting
Contiguous Outliers in the LOw-rank Representation
(DECOLOR), [13] keeps l0 -penalty to preserve the robustness
to outliers, and also modeled the continuity earlier on
foreground masks to improve the accuracy of detecting
contiguous outliers.
There have been several grayscale-thermal video data sets
for various vision tasks. For example, the OSU color-thermal
data set [16] contains six thermal/color video sequence
pairs recorded from two different locations with only people
moving. Two other grayscale-thermal data sets are collected
in [17] and [18]. Most of them, however, suffer from their
limited size, low diversity, and high bias. This paper addresses
this issue and creates a reasonable size grayscale-thermal
video data set that provides comprehensive evaluations. Table I
presents the challenges of our data set against other public
grayscale-thermal data sets.
III. WELD A LGORITHM
Given a grayscale-thermal video pair, we solve the moving
object detection in a batch way and adaptively incorporate the
information from different modalities by their respective video
quality.
A. Model Formulation
We formulate the problem of grayscale-thermal foreground
detection in a low-rank representation framework due to
its robustness to noise. For the kth modal video, we stack
each frame as column vectors into a matrix, i.e., Dk =
[d1k , d2k , . . . , dnk ] ∈ R g×n , where g is the number of pixels in
one frame and n is the number of frames in one modal video.
Herein, we consider the K modalities for general formulation
and grayscale-thermal data in this paper is a special case with
K = 2. Our goal is to discover the object mask S from data
matrices D[1,...,K ] , which is an abbreviation of the matrix set
{D1 , D2 , . . . , D K }. S ∈ {0, 1}g×n is a binary matrix denoting
the foreground mask as

0, if i j is background
Si j =
(1)
1, if i j is foreground.
To this end, we assume that single-modal underlying
background images are linearly correlated and foregrounds
are sparse. This assumption has been successfully applied
in background modeling [13], [27]. Thus, based on this

Authorized licensed use limited to: SUN YAT-SEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on February 22,2021 at 18:34:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

728

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 27, NO. 4, APRIL 2017

assumption, the low-rank representation model can be
formulated as
1
min  fS̄k (Dk − Bk )2F + βvec(Sk )0
k
k
B ,S 2
s.t. rank(Bk ) ≤ r k , k = 1, 2, . . . , K

(2)

where Bk ∈ R g×n denotes the underlying background images

and β is a balance parameter. vec(·) is a vectorize operator on a
matrix. · F and ·0 indicate the Frobenius norm of a matrix
and the l0 norm of a vector, respectively. f S (X) represents the
orthogonal projection of a matrix X onto the linear space of
matrices supported by S

0,
Si j = 0
f S (X)(i, j ) =
(3)
Xi j , Si j = 1

is
its
complementary
projection,
and
f S̄ (X)
i.e., f S (X) + f S̄ (X) = X.
To make the rank constraints tractable, we relax it with
the nuclear norm, which has been proved to be an effective
convex surrogate of the rank operator [35]. Thus, we can
reformulate (2) as
1
min  fS̄k (Dk − Bk )2F + λBk ∗ + βvec(Sk )0
k
k
2
B ,S
k = 1, 2, . . . , K (4)
where  · ∗ denotes the nuclear norm of a matrix and λ
is a balance parameter. Though minimizing l0 norm of the
foreground mask Sk is also nonconvex, we can optimize it
through introducing the contiguous constraint on Sk , which is
a prior that foreground objects should be contiguous pieces,
and naturally model it by a Markov Random Field (MRF) [13],
[36]. In this way, l0 norm of Sk can be converted into a unary
term in the MRF minimization function (see Section III-B
for more details). We denote E k as the edge set connecting
spatially neighboring pixels in the kth modality. It is worth
mentioning that the edges in the temporally neighboring pixels
are ignored for reducing the computational complexity. This
contiguous constraint is formulated as
 

Sk − Sk  = Ak vec(Sk )1
(5)
ij
kl
(i j,kl)∈E k

where Ak is the node-edge incidence matrix denoting
the connecting relationship among pixels in kth modality.
Therefore, we enforce contiguous constraint into (4) as
1
 f S̄k (Dk − Bk )2F + λBk ∗ + βvec(Sk )0
Bk ,Sk 2
min

+ γ Ak vec(Sk )1 , k = 1, 2, . . . , K

(6)

where γ is a balance parameter.
In (6), it is inherently indicated that the available
modalities are independent and contribute equally. This
may significantly limit the performance in dealing with
occasional perturbation or malfunction of individual sources.
Therefore, we propose a novel collaborative model for
robustly detecting moving objects that: 1) adaptively recovers
the low-rank backgrounds based on their respective modal
qualities; 2) collaboratively computes one sparse foreground

Algorithm 1 Optimization Procedure to (7)
Input: Dk , (k = 1, . . . , K ).
Set Bk = Dk (k = 1, 2, . . . , K ), S = 0, λk =
1
K , max I ter = 20,  = 1e − 4.
Output: S, Bk , δk , (k = 1, 2, . . . , K ).
1: for i = 1 : max I ter do
2: if i == 1 then
3:
φδ k =  f S̄ (Dk − Bk )2F , k = 1, 2, . . . , K .
4: end if
5: Parallelly update {Bk } by Eq. (8);
6: Update S by Eq. (9);
7: Update {δ k } by Eq. (10);
8: Check the convergence condition: if the maximum
objective change between two consecutive iterations is
less than , then terminate the loop.
9: end for

mask shared by all modalities; and 3) efficiently optimizes the
quality weights of all modalities with closed-form solutions.
In this way, we can detect moving objects by adaptively
leveraging the information about different modalities based on
their reliabilities. The formulation of the WELD algorithm is
proposed as
min

K

(δ k )m

{Bk },S,{δ k }

k=1

2

 fS̄ (Dk − Bk )2F + λBk ∗

+ βvec(S)0 + γ A vec(S)1 +

K


φδ k (1 − δ k )m

(7)

k=1

with the constraints δ k > 0 (k = 1, . . . , K ), where
δ k is the quality weight of the kth modality and
m ∈ (1, ∞) is a fuzzifier parameter, similar to the formulation
of fuzzy c-means clustering [37]. S is the shared foreground
mask matrix by all the modalities. φδ k is determined by
the reconstruction error of the kth modality after the first
iteration, as shown in Algorithm 1. The last term in (7) is a
possibility-like constraint to avoid degenerate solutions of {δ k },
similar to the possibilistic fuzzy c-means clustering [38],
allowing the weights of different modalities to be specified
independently.
B. Optimization
Although (7) seems complex, we can efficiently solve it
by the alternating optimization algorithm. Given {δ k } and S,
the minimization of {Bk } in (7) can be transformed to be the
matrix completion problem [19]
min
{Bk }

K

(δ k )m
k=1

2

 f S̄ (Dk − Bk )2F + λBk ∗ .

(8)

This is to learn a low-rank background matrix from
partial observations. The optimal Bk in (8) can be
efficiently computed by the SOFT-IMPUTE algorithm whose
convergence property has been proved in [19]. Note that the
computations of {Bk } are independent in (8). Thus, we can
optimize them in a parallel way for efficiency.

Authorized licensed use limited to: SUN YAT-SEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on February 22,2021 at 18:34:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

LI et al.: WELD FOR ROBUST GRAYSCALE-THERMAL FOREGROUND DETECTION

Given {δ k } and {Bk }, (7) can be rewritten as
min
S

K

(δ k )m

2

k=1

= min
S

 f S̄ (Dk −Bk )2F +βvec(S)0 +γ A vec(S)1

K


2
(δ k )m   k
Di j − Bkij (1 − Si j ) + β
Si j
2
k=1

ij

ij

+ γ A vec(S)1


K


1  k 2 k
k 2
β−
Si j
= min
(δ ) Di j − Bi j
S
2
ij

729

Algorithm 2 Summarization of Our System
Input: One grayscale-thermal video pair.
Output: Full-resolution foreground detection maps.
1: Run gradient-driven downsampling on video pair to obtain
the low-resolution video pair;
2: Run Alg. 1 on the low-resolution video pair to obtain the
low-resolution foreground detection maps;
3: For each foreground detection map, run edge-preserving
upsampling to recover the full-resolution one.

k=1

+ γ A vec(S)1 + C


K


1  k 2 k
k 2
β−
Si j
= min
(δ ) Di j − Bi j
S
2
ij

k=1

+ γ A vec(S)1

(9)

K
where C = (1/2) k=1
(δ k )2 i j (Dkij − Bkij )2 is a constant
with respect to S. Therefore, the minimization of S can be
converted to the first-order MRFs problem, which can be
efficiently solved by graph cut algorithm [20], [21].
Given {Bk } and S, the quality weights in (7) can be
written as

K

 f S̄ (Dk − Bk )2F k m
(δ ) + φδ k (1 − δ k )m
min
2
{δ k }
k=1

δ k > 0 (k = 1, . . . , K ) (10)
which has a closed-form solution
1
δk =
, k = 1, 2, . . . , K .
1
1+

 f S̄ (Dk −Bk )2F
φδk

(11)

m−1

A suboptimal solution can be obtained by alternating the
optimization to {Bk }, S, and {δ k }; the algorithm is summarized
in Algorithm 1. The convergence of WELD can be guaranteed
obviously, as each subproblem converges to an optimal
solution.
IV. F-WELD: FAST I MPLEMENTATION
In this section, we will present an edge-preserving
filtering-based method to improve the efficiency of WELD
while preserving its accuracy, using F-WELD.
Instead of processing the full-resolution videos, we perform
WELD algorithm on the low-resolution videos subsampled
from the original videos in a gradient-driven way. More
specifically, we pick the pixel with the largest gradient
magnitude from a 3 × 3 patch on every frame to form
the low-resolution videos. In this way, we can obtain
the low-resolution detection maps. For each low-resolution
detection map, we employ it to recover the full-resolution one
with the edge-preserving upsampling technique. Herein, we
regard the reliable modal frame, which has a higher quality
weight, as the guidance image. It can produce a smoothly
varying dense detection map without blurring the edges of
objects. In this paper, the edge-preserving upsampling method
consists of two steps:

Fig. 2. Generating a pixelwise shape-adaptive region of CLMF [23] (see text
for more details).

1) Shape-Adaptive Region Generation: We first obtain an
arbitrary-shaped observation region for each pixel in an
image. Specifically, for a pixel p centered at a square
window W p , the color similarity criterion for a pixel q is
defined as
|Ic (q) − Ic ( p)| ≤ τ, c ∈ {R, G, B}, q ∈ W p

(12)

where Ic is the intensity of the color band c of the
3×3 median smoothed guidance image I and L denotes
the preset maximum arm length of the observation
window W p centered at pixel p of size (2L + 1) ×
(2L + 1). τ controls the confidence level of the color
similarity. The details of generating the shape-adaptive
region p are presented in cross-based local multipoint
filtering (CLMF) [23] and we briefly review the main
idea for clarity. CLMF decides a pixelwise adaptive
cross with four arms (left, right, top, bottom) for
every pixel p. These arms record the largest left/right
horizontal and top/bottom vertical span of the anchor
pixel p, where all the pixels covered by the arms
satisfies 12. Let H ( p) and V ( p) denote all the pixels
covered by the horizontal and vertical arms of p,
respectively, as shown in Fig. 2. Let q denote any pixel
covered by the vertical arms of p, i.e., q ∈ V ( p) and
we can construct the arbitrary-shaped region of p by
integrating multiple H (q) sliding along V ( p): p =
q∈V ( p) H (q).
2) Edge-Preserving Upsampling: Given the low-resolution
input image J l , we can upsample it to the full-resolution
image J without perturbing the object edges by the
edge-preserving filtering. For the pixel p ∈ J , similar
to the joint bilateral upsampling [22], its value is

Authorized licensed use limited to: SUN YAT-SEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on February 22,2021 at 18:34:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

730

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 27, NO. 4, APRIL 2017

Fig. 3.
Edge-preserving filtering for F-WELD. Herein, one modality is shown for clarity. (a) Original frame. (b) Gradient-driven downsampling.
(c) WELD result. (d) Edge-preserving upsampling. (e) Ground truth. (f) Bilinear downsampling. (g) WELD result. (h) Bilinear upsampling.
(c) and (g) Results of WELD running on (b) and (f), respectively. One can see that the edge-preserving filtering-based F-WELD achieves better accuracy than
the general resize operation.

estimated by

A. Data Set
J ( p) =

|

1



k|

k∈

ω p,k J l (k)

(13)

k

where k is the shape-adaptive region generated by
the guidance image I of pixel k ∈ J l , as shown
in Fig. 2. | k | denotes the number of pixels in k
and ω p,k = exp(−x p , xk /σ ), where x p indicates the
position of p. In this way, the pixel values are weighted
average by the spatial distance in the homogeneous
regions of the guidance image to form the full-resolution
one without perturbing the edges of objects. Overall,
our complete system of grayscale-thermal foreground
detection is summarized in Algorithm 2.
There are several commonly used downsampling and
upsampling techniques. On the one hand, the interpolationbased methods usually generated bad performance, as it
employed less information. In particular, the bilinear interpolation is one of the commonly used interpolation methods, and
thus we demonstrate the effectiveness of the proposed method
against the bilinear interpolation in Fig. 3. On the other hand,
the filtering-based methods regarded the original-resolution
images as guidance and had the advantage of utilizing the
structural information about the original-resolution images for
detection recovery. For the filters using piecewise constant
modeling [39], [40], they usually cannot preserve the image
gradient information well. Although using piecewise linear
local modeling in the guided filter (GF) [41], our used filter is a
more generalized form, which performs local averaging over a
shape-adaptive support region, rather than within a fixed-sized
square window in the GF.
V. G RAYSCALE -T HERMAL B ENCHMARK
This section introduces a new grayscale-thermal video
benchmark for moving object detection and presents some
essential analyses.

Our recording system consists of an online thermal
image (MAG32) and a charge-coupled device camera (SONY TD-2073). We mount these two cameras on
tripods and make their views overlapped as much as possible
for convenient alignment.
Unlike the industry registration in RGBD sensor, which
consists of one RGB sensor and one depth sensor, which
consists of one RGB sensor and one depth sensor, we manually
construct the recording system and develop an annotation tool
to align grayscale-thermal videos in the following way. We
uniformly select a number of point correspondences in the
keyframe of the video pair and compute the homography
matrix by the least-square method. Then, the video pair can
be aligned by applying the computed homography matrix to
transform the remaining frame pairs. This registration method
can accurately align video pairs due to two main reasons.
First, we carefully choose the planar and nonplanar scenes
to make the homography assumption effective. Second, since
two camera views are almost coincident as we made, the
transformation between two views is simple.
We annotate the ground truths of the data set using the
more distinguishable modality. In addition, all the frames are
manually annotated by one person to keep a high consistency.
When occlusion occurs, the ground truth is annotated by the
visible portion of the target. Fig. 4 presents some typical frame
samples of our data set. The following main aspects are taken
into account in creating the grayscale-thermal video.
1) Scene Category: We captured video pairs in 15 scenes,
including laboratory rooms, campus roads, play grounds,
water pools, etc.
2) Object Category: Our grayscale-thermal data set
includes rigid and nonrigid objects, such as vehicles,
pedestrians, and animals.
3) Intermittent Motion (IM): When the objects move
slowly or stop at one or more frames, many detection
methods easily tend to classify them as background.

Authorized licensed use limited to: SUN YAT-SEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on February 22,2021 at 18:34:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

LI et al.: WELD FOR ROBUST GRAYSCALE-THERMAL FOREGROUND DETECTION

731

Fig. 4. Sample pairs and the corresponding annotated challenges of our data set. The grayscale frames, thermal frames, and their corresponding ground
truths are shown in the first row, second row, and third row, respectively. We only present one frame pair of each video pair for clarity.
TABLE II

TABLE III

C HALLENGES A NNOTATED TO O UR
G RAYSCALE -T HERMAL D ATA S ET

A NNOTATED C HALLENGES OF A LL V IDEO S EQUENCES , W HERE 
I NDICATES THE V IDEO PAIR AND I NCLUDES
THE C ORRESPONDING C HALLENGE

4) Shadow Effect: The shadows cast by foregrounds or
backgrounds with varying ambient lighting usually cause
fake motions in the background. They increase the
difficulty to detect the intact foregrounds.
5) Illumination Condition: The video sequences are
captured under different light conditions (sunny, rainy,
and nighttime, etc). The LI and illumination variation
caused by different light conditions usually bring big
challenges in grayscale videos.
6) Background Factor: First, a similar background to
the moving objects in appearance or temperature
will introduce ambiguous information, and bring big
challenges to detection methods. Second, it is difficult to
separate objects accurately from a cluttered background.
Third, the dynamic scene (DS) is also a challenge in
moving object detection, such as swaying leaves and
waving water surfaces.
Table II summarizes the challenges of the newly built video
data sets. We present the challenge distribution in Fig. 5 and
the challenges of all the video sequences in Table III.
B. Baseline Approaches
To evaluate the proposed approach and providing a
comprehensive evaluation platform, we add some popular
methods as baselines as a part of our benchmarks. Specifically,

we implement three kinds of baselines, including grayscale,
thermal, and grayscale-thermal detection methods.
1) Eleven grayscale baselines are included in the
benchmark, including DEtecting Contiguous Outliers
in the LOw-rank Representation (DECOLOR) [13],
Motion-Assisted Matrix Restoration (MAMR) [29],
Local Adaptive Sensitivity (LAS) [26], Adaptive
Self-Organizing Model (ASOM) [42], Fusing Color
and Texture Features (FCTF) [43], Smoothness and
Arbitrariness Constraints (SAC) [14], Principle
Component Pursuit (PCP) [12], Three Term
Decomposition (TTD) [45], Adaptive Pixelwise
Kernel Variances (APKV) [44], Gaussian Mixture

Authorized licensed use limited to: SUN YAT-SEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on February 22,2021 at 18:34:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

732

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 27, NO. 4, APRIL 2017

TABLE IV
AVERAGE P RECISION , R ECALL , AND F-M EASURE OF O UR M ETHOD A GAINST D IFFERENT K INDS OF BASELINE M ETHODS ON
THE N EWLY C REATED D ATA S ET. C ODE T YPE AND F RAMES PER S ECOND A RE A LSO P RESENTED .
B OLD F ONTS OF THE R ESULTS I NDICATE THE B EST P ERFORMANCE

respectively. Their calculations are
TP
TP + FP
TP
R=
TP + FN
2PR
(14)
F =
P+R
where TP, FP, and FN denote true positive, false positive, and
false negative, respectively.
P =

VI. E XPERIMENTS
Fig. 5. Challenge distribution on the entire data set. The vertical ordinate
indicates the number of video pairs.

Model (GMM) [7], and Visual Background Extractor
(ViBe) [9].
2) Regarding thermal modality as input in the above
methods, we obtain 11 thermal baselines.
3) To the best of our knowledge, none of the grayscalethermal methods release the codes online. Thus, we
implement two grayscale-thermal baselines for comprehensive evaluation, including GMM-GT and JSC [5].
In particular, GMM-GT fuses the detection results of
GMM [7] with grayscale and thermal inputs.
It is worth mentioning that two variants of the proposed
approach can also be regarded as additional baseline
approaches in the benchmark (see Section VI-C for more
details).
C. Evaluation Metrics
For the quantitative evaluation, we employ precision, recall,
and F-measure as evaluation metrics, denoting P, R, and F,

We present empirical evaluation and analysis of the
proposed method against several baseline methods on both
the newly created data set and the public OSU3 data set [16].
We further analyze the component contributions and efficiency
of the proposed method. Finally, we discuss our limitations
through failure cases.
A. Evaluation Settings
1) Datasets: We evaluate the proposed method on two
data sets, the newly created one and the public one [16].
Our (OSU3) data set includes 25 (6) video sequence pairs
and 1067 (8544) frame pairs in total, where the shortest
and the longest video lengths are 24 (601) and 131 (2031),
respectively. The video sequence pairs in the newly created
data set are with three resolutions: 1) 320 ×240; 2) 384 ×288;
and 3) 400 × 296, while the video sequence pairs in OSU3
are with the resolution 320 × 240. More details of the newly
created data set are presented in Section V. For OSU3, its
main challenges are shadow, IM, and DS. Since the original
data set reported in [16] does not include the detection ground
truths, we manually annotate the ground truths with 30 frame
intervals for facilitating the evaluations.

Authorized licensed use limited to: SUN YAT-SEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on February 22,2021 at 18:34:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

LI et al.: WELD FOR ROBUST GRAYSCALE-THERMAL FOREGROUND DETECTION

733

Fig. 6. Sample results of our method against other methods. The odd rows indicate the grayscale frames and the corresponding detection results generated
by grayscale methods, and the even rows denote the thermal frames and the corresponding detection results generated by thermal methods, except for the last
two columns. Herein, (i) and (j) indicate the detection results of grayscale-thermal methods (GMM-GT and JSC) and our methods (WELD and F-WELD),
respectively.

2) Parameters: Although the proposed method has many
parameters, we only need to set some of them, and fix them
on both the newly created data set and the OSU3 data set for
fair comparisons.
1) The parameter λ controls the complexity of the
background model. We first give a rough estimate to
the rank of the background model, denoting r for all
modalities. Then, we initialize λ with a large value, the
mean of the second largest singular values of {Dk } in our
implementation, and run the SOFT-IMPUTE algorithm.
k
If the existing k is
√ subject to rank(B ) ≤ r , we reduce
λ by a factor ( 1/ 2 in our implementation) and repeat
the SOFT-IMPUTE algorithm until rank(Bk ) > r for
all k = 1, 2, . . . , K . Thus, we just need to set r to
control the complexity of the background model in the
experiments. Note that the shortest video length of two
data sets is 24, and the longest video length of two data
sets is 2031. r should be adjusted by the video length
to adapt
√ its variation. Therefore, we empirically set it to
be n, where n denotes the video length.
2) The parameter β controls the sparsity of the foreground
masks. We typically set β = 4.5σ 2 , where σ is
estimated online by the mean variance of {Dk − Bk }.

Since the estimation of {Bk } and σ is biased at
the beginning iterations, similar to λ, we start our
algorithm with a large β and then reduce it by a factor
(0.5 in our implementation) after each iteration until it
reaches 4.5σ 2 .
3) The parameter γ controls the spatial smoothness of
the foreground and background, and can be adaptively
adjusted by β. We empirically set it to be 6β.
4) The parameters {φδ k } are determined by the
reconstruction error after the first iteration, as shown
in Algorithm 1.
5) The above parameter settings are for WELD.
In√ F-WELD, we empirically set {r, γ , β}
=
{( n/3), 4β, 2.7σ 2 }, and set the window size L and
the similarity threshold τ to be 20 and 16, respectively.
B. Comparison Results
1) Overall Performance: We first report the overall
performance of both the newly created and the public data
sets. The quantitative and qualitative comparison results of the
proposed approach on the newly created data set with three
other kinds of baselines are presented in Table IV and Fig. 6.
Here, we input the same modal data into WELD and F-WELD

Authorized licensed use limited to: SUN YAT-SEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on February 22,2021 at 18:34:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

734

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 27, NO. 4, APRIL 2017

Fig. 7. (a) and (b) Two sequential results of our method. The left-top number indicates the frame index. The grayscale frame, thermal frame, F-WELD
results, and ground truth are presented in the first, second, third, and fourth rows, respectively.

to obtain their respective results on the single modality. From
Table IV and Fig. 6, we can see that our F-WELD achieves a
superior performance over other methods with different inputs,
demonstrating the effectiveness of the proposed approach. We
can further make the following main conclusions through the
comparison results.
1) F-WELD and WELD achieve a superior performance
than the grayscale and thermal methods. This
observation not only demonstrates that fusing grayscale
and thermal data can obtain more robust results than
single modality, but it also identifies the importance
of thermal information in foreground detection under
challenging scenarios.
2) F-WELD and WELD substantially outperform other
grayscale-thermal methods, justifying that the proposed
methods can adaptively integrate grayscale and thermal
information to achieve robust foreground detection.
3) F-WELD, WELD, and DECOLOR obtain a big
superiority in recall. It validates the effectiveness

of introducing the contiguous constraints of moving
objects.
4) The superior performance of F-WELD on a single
modality against other state-of-the-art approaches further
demonstrates the effectiveness of the proposed approach.
5) The low-rank methods usually achieve promising
detection results in challenging scenarios, such as
F-WELD, WELD, MAMR, and DECOLOR. This
may be attributed to the robustness to noises of the
low-rank model. In addition, we also present the
sequential results generated by our F-WELD in Fig. 7.
To further validate the effectiveness of the proposed methods,
we evaluate them with other baseline methods on the public
data set OSU3 [16]. The comparison results are shown in
Fig. 8, which mainly accord with the observations on the newly
created data set. In particular, the performance of F-WELD is
slightly worse than WELD and significantly outperforms three
other kinds of baseline approaches. Comparing the results
on two data sets, we can find that many methods have a

Authorized licensed use limited to: SUN YAT-SEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on February 22,2021 at 18:34:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

LI et al.: WELD FOR ROBUST GRAYSCALE-THERMAL FOREGROUND DETECTION

735

TABLE VI
P ERFORMANCE AND RUNTIME OF D IFFERENT D OWNSAMPLING
S CALARS ON THE N EWLY C REATED D ATA S ET

Fig. 8. Evaluation results of the proposed methods against other baseline
methods on the public data set OSU3. G and T in the brackets indicate the
grayscale data and the thermal data, respectively.

TABLE VII
AVERAGE P RECISION , R ECALL , AND F-M EASURE OF O UR M ETHOD AND
I TS VARIANTS ON THE E NTIRE D ATA S ET. B OLD F ONTS
OF R ESULTS I NDICATE THE B EST P ERFORMANCE

TABLE V
C HALLENGE -BASED R ESULTS OF F-WELD A GAINST I TS R ESULTS ON A
S INGLE M ODALITY, W HERE G I NDICATES T HAT W E O NLY I NPUT THE
G RAYSCALE D ATA I NTO F-WELD, W HILE T I NDICATES T HAT
W E O NLY I NPUT THE T HERMAL D ATA I NTO F-WELD

bad performance in the newly created data set, but obtain
good results in the OSU3, such as ASOM, FCFT, LAS, TTD,
and PCP. It suggests that the proposed data set has bigger
challenges than the public one, and will be helpful to promote
the progress in grayscale-thermal foreground detection.
2) Challenge-Based Performance: To quantify the
complementarity between the two modalities, we present the
challenge-based comparison results in Fig. 9, including LI,
intense shadow (IS), BC, and TC. For LI and IS, grayscale
data are affected by the lighting condition, while thermal
data are not. The results show that most of the compared
methods have a higher performance on thermal data, as
shown in Fig. 9(a) and (b). In BC, the moving objects are
easier to be influenced by clutter backgrounds in grayscale
data than in thermal data. Fig. 9(c) shows this point, i.e., most
compared methods obtain a superior performance on thermal
data than on grayscale data. In contrast, thermal videos
with TC usually make detection algorithms have a weaker
performance. In such a circumstance, grayscale information
may be effective to distinguish the moving objects from
the background, as demonstrated in Fig. 9(d). Note that our
methods achieve high performance in all the four challenges.
In addition, we also present the challenge-based results
of F-WELD against its results on a single modality, as
shown in Table V. The comparison results further justify the
complementarity of these two modalities. Therefore, we can
conclude that the proposed methods can complement each
other to achieve robust detection under challenging scenarios.
3) Other Discussions: We first discuss the influences of
the frame numbers on the performance and computational
efficiency. The F-measure and the runtime of different frame
numbers are shown in Fig. 10. Here, a different frame number

indicates the different partition of input videos. For example,
given a certain frame number n 0 , we partition the input video
into several video clips, in which each clip has n 0 adjacent
frames. The detection results with the frame number n 0 are
obtained by performing F-WELD on all video clips. From
Fig. 10, on the one hand, we can see that the performance
changes a little when the frame number is between 10 and 100
and the runtime increases slightly. Although F-WELD obtain
much gain in efficiency, its F-measure decreases greatly when
the frame number is 5. Therefore, we can conclude that at
least 10 frames are required in our algorithm to keep a high
performance. On the other hand, if we input all the frames of a
video at one time, the length that can be processed depends on
the memory of the computer used. However, if we temporally
partition the video into some video clips, in which each clip is
computable for the computer used, our algorithm can process
an arbitrarily long video.
Then, we present the influences of the downsampling
scalars on the performance and computational efficiency
in Table VI. From the results, we can see that the performance
decreases slightly, while the runtime decreases greatly when
the downsampling scalar becomes 3 from 2. When the
downsampling scalar is between 3 and 5, the results change
a little in both the performance and computational efficiency.
Therefore, we set the downsampling scalar to 3 in this paper
to balance the accuracy-efficiency tradeoff.
C. Component Analysis
To justify the component contributions of the proposed
approach, we further implement the following two variants.
1) WELD-I, which sets δ k = 1/K , k = 1, 2, . . . , K ,
making each modality equal in reliable weights.
2) F-WELD-I, which replaces the gradient-driven
downsampling and edge-preserving upsampling with
the bilinear downsampling and bilinear upsampling,
respectively.

Authorized licensed use limited to: SUN YAT-SEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on February 22,2021 at 18:34:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

736

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 27, NO. 4, APRIL 2017

Fig. 9. Challenge-based performance of the proposed methods against other baseline methods on the newly created data set. G and T in the brackets indicate
the grayscale data and the thermal data, respectively. (a) Low illumination. (b) Intense shadow. (c) Background clutter. (d) Thermal crossover.

Table VII shows the quantitative results on the newly created
data set and we can make the following observations.
1) F-WELD outperforms WELD in precision and
F-measure. It justifies the contribution of the proposed
accelerate algorithm. In F-WELD, we regard the
original-resolution frames as guidance and recover the
original-resolution results from the low-resolution ones
by employing edge-preserving filtering. This process
has the advantage of utilizing the structural information
about the original-resolution frames for detection
recovery.
2) WELD significantly outperforms WELD-I in precision
and F-measure, and is slightly worse in recall.
It demonstrates the importance of weights in the
proposed model to achieve adaptive fusion of different
modalities.
3) F-WELD substantially outperforms F-WELD-I in precision and F-measure, showing that the edge-preserving
filtering-based accelerate algorithm can greatly improve
the detection accuracy.
D. Efficiency Analysis

Fig. 10. F-measure and runtime of F-WELD of different number of frames,
which are computed from three videos in the newly created data set. Each
video has a length of 100 frames.

The experiments are carried out on a desktop with an
Intel i7 4.0-GHz CPU and 32-GB RAM, and implemented
on the mixing platform of C++ and MATLAB without any
code optimization. The runtime of our method against other
methods is presented in Table IV and all the frames are with
a 320 × 240 resolution. From Table IV, we can see that
F-WELD can speed up WELD by about 4 times (achieving
about 10 frames/s) while improving its accuracy by 6%.
Although ASOM, ViBe, GMM, FCFT, GMM-GT, and PCP

are much faster than ours, these methods are much worse
than F-WELD in precision, recall, and F-measure. LAS and
JSC are comparable with F-WELD in efficiency and also
have much worse accuracy than F-WELD. For MAMR and
DECOLOR, they have heavy computational burdens in spite
of obtaining good accuracies. These demonstrate that F-WELD
obtains a good balance in efficiency and accuracy. Note that
our F-WELD is near-real-time, and we can further reduce the

Authorized licensed use limited to: SUN YAT-SEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on February 22,2021 at 18:34:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

LI et al.: WELD FOR ROBUST GRAYSCALE-THERMAL FOREGROUND DETECTION

Fig. 11. Unsatisfying results generated by our method. (a) Grayscale frame.
(b) Thermal frame. (c) WELD. (d) F-WELD.

computational burden by increasing the downsampling scalar
without losing much accuracy, as shown in Table VI.
E. Limitation
We also present the unsatisfying results generated by our
method, as shown in Fig. 11. When severe noises occur
in one modality, such as moving shadows, another modal
information can alleviate their effects. The detection results
of the third frame pair in Fig. 6 show that our method can
handle this situation well. However, when such noises occur
in both the modalities [see Fig. 11(a) and (b)], our method will
fail [see Fig. 11(c) and (d)]. This problem could be tackled by
incorporating shape or other high-level knowledge to remove
these noises.
VII. C ONCLUSION
In this paper, we proposed a general algorithm for
robust foreground detection in challenging scenarios by
adaptively leveraging grayscale-thermal information and
also substantially sped up our algorithm while preserving
its accuracy by the edge-preserving filtering. Extensive
experiments on the newly created and public grayscale-thermal
data sets suggest that our approach achieved superior
performance against other state-of-the-art approaches. In the
future work, we will develop other priors on the foreground
or background into our framework to further improve the
robustness and extend our algorithm in a streaming or an
online fashion for processing arbitrarily long videos with
limited computational sources and spaces.
R EFERENCES
[1] R. Gade and T. B. Moeslund, “Thermal cameras and applications:
A survey,” Mach. Vis. Appl., vol. 25, no. 1, pp. 245–262, 2013.
[2] C. Li, S. Hu, S. Gao, and J. Tang, “Real-time grayscale-thermal tracking
via Laplacian sparse representation,” in Proc. Int. Conf. MultiMedia
Modeling, 2016, pp. 54–65.
[3] J. W. Davis and V. Sharma, “Fusion-based background-subtraction using
contour saliency,” in Proc. IEEE Comput. Soc. Conf. Comput. Vis.
Pattern Recognit., Jun. 2005, p. 11.

737

[4] J. Han and B. Bhanu, “Fusion of color and infrared video for moving
human detection,” Pattern Recognit., vol. 40, no. 6, pp. 1771–1784,
2007.
[5] G. Han, X. Cai, and J. Wang, “Object detection based on combination of
visible and thermal videos using a joint sample consensus background
model,” J. Softw., vol. 8, no. 4, pp. 987–994, 2013.
[6] B. Zhao, Z. Li, M. Liu, W. Cao, and H. Liu, “Infrared and
visible imagery fusion based on region saliency detection for
24-hour-surveillance systems,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Conf. Robot.
Biomimetics, Dec. 2013, pp. 1083–1088.
[7] C. Stauffer and W. E. L. Grimson, “Adaptive background mixture models
for real-time tracking,” in Proc. IEEE Comput. Soc. Conf. Comput. Vis.
Pattern Recognit., Jun. 1999, pp. 246–252.
[8] T. H. Tsai, C.-Y. Lin, and S.-Y. Li, “Algorithm and architecture design of
human–machine interaction in foreground object detection with dynamic
scene,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video Technol., vol. 23, no. 1,
pp. 15–29, Jan. 2013.
[9] O. Barnich and M. Van Droogenbroeck, “ViBe: A universal background
subtraction algorithm for video sequences,” IEEE Trans. Image Process.,
vol. 20, no. 6, pp. 1709–1724, Jun. 2011.
[10] C. Cuevas and N. García, “Efficient moving object detection for
lightweight applications on smart cameras,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst.
Video Technol., vol. 23, no. 1, pp. 1–14, Jan. 2013.
[11] M.-H. Yang, C.-R. Huang, W.-C. Liu, S.-Z. Lin, and K.-T. Chuang,
“Binary descriptor based nonparametric background modeling for
foreground extraction by using detection theory,” IEEE Trans. Circuits
Syst. Video Technol., vol. 25, no. 4, pp. 595–608, Apr. 2015.
[12] E. J. Candès, X. Li, Y. Ma, and J. Wright, “Robust principal component
analysis?” J. ACM, vol. 58, no. 3, 2011, Art. no. 11.
[13] X. Zhou, C. Yang, and W. Yu, “Moving object detection by detecting
contiguous outliers in the low-rank representation,” IEEE Trans. Pattern
Anal. Mach. Intell., vol. 35, no. 3, pp. 597–610, Mar. 2013.
[14] X. Guo, X. Wang, L. Yang, X. Cao, and Y. Ma, “Robust foreground
detection using smoothness and arbitrariness constraints,” in Proc. 13th
Eur. Conf. Comput. Vis., 2014, pp. 535–550.
[15] X. You, Q. Li, D. Tao, W. Ou, and M. Gong, “Local metric learning
for exemplar-based object detection,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video
Technol., vol. 24, no. 8, pp. 1265–1276, Aug. 2014.
[16] J. W. Davis and V. Sharma, “Background-subtraction using
contour-based fusion of thermal and visible imagery,” Comput. Vis.
Image Understand., vol. 106, no. 2, pp. 162–182, 2007.
[17] A. Torabi, G. Massé, and G.-A. Bilodeau, “An iterative integrated
framework for thermal–visible image registration, sensor fusion, and
people tracking for video surveillance applications,” Comput. Vis. Image
Understand., vol. 116, no. 2, pp. 210–221, 2012.
[18] G.-A. Bilodeau, A. Torabi, P.-L. St-Charles, and D. Riahi,
“Thermal–visible registration of human silhouettes: A similarity
measure performance evaluation,” Infr. Phys. Technol., vol. 64,
pp. 79–86, May 2014.
[19] R. Mazumder, T. Hastie, and R. Tibshirani, “Spectral regularization
algorithms for learning large incomplete matrices,” J. Mach. Learn. Res.,
vol. 11, pp. 2287–2322, Aug. 2010.
[20] Y. Boykov, O. Veksler, and R. Zabih, “Fast approximate energy
minimization via graph cuts,” IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell.,
vol. 23, no. 11, pp. 1222–1239, Nov. 2001.
[21] V. Kolmogorov and R. Zabin, “What energy functions can be minimized
via graph cuts?” IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell., vol. 26, no. 2,
pp. 147–159, Feb. 2004.
[22] J. Kopf, M. F. Cohen, D. Lischinski, and M. Uyttendaele, “Joint bilateral
upsampling,” ACM Trans. Graph., vol. 26, no. 3, 2007, Art. no. 96.
[23] J. Lu, K. Shi, D. Min, L. Lin, and M. N. Do, “Cross-based local
multipoint filtering,” in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit.,
Jun. 2012, pp. 430–437.
[24] K. Wang, L. Lin, J. Lu, C. Li, and K. Shi, “PISA: Pixelwise image
saliency by aggregating complementary appearance contrast measures
with edge-preserving coherence,” IEEE Trans. Image Process., vol. 24,
no. 10, pp. 3019–3033, Oct. 2015.
[25] F. El Baf, T. Bouwmans, and B. Vachon, “Foreground detection using the
Choquet integral,” in Proc. 9th Int. Workshop Image Anal. Multimedia
Interact. Services, 2008, pp. 187–190.
[26] P. L. St-Charles, G. A. Bilodeau, and R. Bergevin, “SuBSENSE:
A universal change detection method with local adaptive sensitivity,”
IEEE Trans. Image Process., vol. 24, no. 1, pp. 359–373, Jan. 2015.
[27] X. Cui, J. Huang, S. Zhang, and D. N. Metaxas, “Background subtraction
using low rank and group sparsity constraints,” in Proc. 12th Eur. Conf.
Comput. Vis., 2012, pp. 612–625.
[28] C. Li, L. Lin, W. Zuo, S. Yan, and J. Tang, “SOLD: Sub-optimal
low-rank decomposition for efficient video segmentation,” in Proc. IEEE
Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., Jun. 2015, pp. 5519–5527.

Authorized licensed use limited to: SUN YAT-SEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on February 22,2021 at 18:34:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

738

IEEE TRANSACTIONS ON CIRCUITS AND SYSTEMS FOR VIDEO TECHNOLOGY, VOL. 27, NO. 4, APRIL 2017

[29] X. Ye, J. Yang, X. Sun, K. Li, C. Hou, and Y. Wang,
“Foreground–background
separation
from
video
clips
via
motion-assisted matrix restoration,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video
Technol., vol. 25, no. 11, pp. 1721–1734, Nov. 2015.
[30] C. Li, L. Lin, W. Zuo, W. Wang, and J. Tang, “An approach to streaming
video segmentation with sub-optimal low-rank decomposition,” IEEE
Trans. Image Process., vol. 25, no. 5, pp. 1947–1960, May 2016.
[31] L. Maddalena and A. Petrosino, “A fuzzy spatial coherence-based
approach to background/foreground separation for moving object
detection,” Neural Comput. Appl., vol. 19, no. 2, pp. 179–186, 2010.
[32] P. Kumar, A. Mittal, and P. Kumar, “Fusion of thermal infrared and
visible spectrum video for robust surveillance,” in Computer Vision,
Graphics and Image Processing, vol. 4338. Madurai, India: Springer,
2006, pp. 528–539.
[33] Z. Zhou, X. Li, J. Wright, E. J. Candès, and Y. Ma, “Stable principal
component pursuit,” in Proc. IEEE Int. Symp. Inf. Theory, Jun. 2010,
pp. 1518–1522.
[34] Y. She and A. B. Owen, “Outlier detection using nonconvex penalized
regression,” J. Amer. Statist. Assoc., vol. 106, no. 494, pp. 626–639,
2011.
[35] B. Recht, M. Fazel, and P. A. Parrilo, “Guaranteed minimum-rank
solutions of linear matrix equations via nuclear norm minimization,”
SIAM Rev., vol. 52, no. 3, pp. 471–501, 2010.
[36] S. Geman and D. Geman, “Stochastic relaxation, Gibbs distributions, and
the Bayesian restoration of images,” IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach.
Intell., vol. 6, no. 6, pp. 721–741, Nov. 1984.
[37] J. C. Bezdek, R. Ehrlich, and W. Full, “FCM: The fuzzy c-means
clustering algorithm,” Comput. Geosci., vol. 10, nos. 2–3, pp. 191–203,
1984.
[38] S. Bahrampour, B. Moshiri, and K. Salahshoor, “Weighted and
constrained possibilistic C-means clustering for online fault detection
and isolation,” Appl. Intell., vol. 35, no. 2, pp. 269–284, 2011.
[39] C. Tomasi and R. Manduchi, “Bilateral filtering for gray and color
images,” in Proc. 6th Int. Conf. Comput. Vis., 1998, pp. 839–846.
[40] K. Zhang, J. Lu, and G. Lafruit, “Cross-based local stereo matching
using orthogonal integral images,” IEEE Trans. Circuits Syst. Video
Technol., vol. 19, no. 7, pp. 1073–1079, Jul. 2009.
[41] K. He, J. Sun, and X. Tang, “Guided image filtering,” IEEE Trans.
Pattern Anal. Mach. Intell., vol. 35, no. 6, pp. 1397–1409, Jun. 2013.
[42] L. Maddalena and A. Petrosino, “A self-organizing approach to
background subtraction for visual surveillance applications,” IEEE
Trans. Image Process., vol. 17, no. 7, pp. 1168–1177, Jul. 2008.
[43] H. Zhang and D. Xu, “Fusing color and texture features for background
model,” in Proc. 3rd Int. Conf. Fuzzy Syst. Knowl. Discovery, 2006,
pp. 887–893.
[44] M. Narayana, A. Hanson, and E. Learned-Miller, “Background modeling
using adaptive pixelwise kernel variances in a hybrid feature space,”
in Proc. IEEE Conf. Comput. Vis. Pattern Recognit., Jun. 2012,
pp. 2104–2111.
[45] O. Oreifej, X. Li, and M. Shah, “Simultaneous video stabilization and
moving object detection in turbulence,” IEEE Trans. Pattern Anal. Mach.
Intell., vol. 35, no. 2, pp. 450–462, Feb. 2013.
Chenglong Li received the B.S. degree in applied
mathematics and the M.S. degree in computer
science from Anhui University, Hefei, China, in
2010 and 2013, respectively, where he is currently
working toward the Ph.D. degree in computer
science.
His research interests include computer vision,
machine learning, and intelligent media technology.

Xiao Wang received the B.S. degree from Western
Anhui University, Luan, China, in 2013 and the
M.S. degree from Anhui University, Hefei, China,
in 2016, where he is currently working toward the
Ph.D. degree in computer science.
His research interests include computer vision,
machine learning, and pattern recognition.

Lei Zhang received the B.S. degree from Western
Anhui University, Luan, China, in 2013 and the
M.S. degree from Anhui University, Hefei, China,
in 2016.
His research interests include computer vision and
machine learning.

Jin Tang received the B.Eng. degree in automation
and the Ph.D. degree in computer science from
Anhui University, Hefei, China, in 1999 and 2007,
respectively.
He is a Professor with the School of Computer
Science and Technology, Anhui University. His
research interests include computer vision, pattern
recognition, and machine learning.

Hejun Wu received the Ph.D. degree in computer
science and engineering from Hong Kong University
of Science and Technology, Hong Kong.
He joined Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou,
China, in 2009. He served as a Post-Doctoral
Research Fellow with Hong Kong University
of Science and Technology and Hong Kong
Ploytechnic
University,
Hong
Kong,
in
2008 and 2009. He is currently an Associate
Professor with the Department of Computer
Science, Sun Yat-sen University, and the Assistant
Dean of the School of Information Science and Technology. His research
interests include wireless sensor network, mobile cloud computing, distributed
databases, embedded systems, and pervasive computing.

Liang Lin received the B.S. and Ph.D. degrees from
Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing, China, in
1999 and 2008, respectively.
He was a Joint Ph.D. Student with the
Department of Statistics, University of California at
Los Angeles (UCLA), Los Angeles, CA, USA, from
2006 to 2007. He was a Post-Doctoral Research
Fellow with the Center for Vision, Cognition,
Learning, and Art, UCLA. He is currently a
Professor with the School of Data and Computer
Science, Sun Yat-sen University, Guangzhou, China.
He has authored over 80 papers in top-tier academic journals and conferences.
His research interests include new models, algorithms, and systems for
intelligent processing and understanding of visual data, such as images and
videos.
Prof. Lin was a recipient of the Best Paper Runners-Up Award in
NPAR 2010, the Google Faculty Award in 2012, the Hong Kong Scholars
Award in 2014, and the Best Student Paper Award in the IEEE ICME
in 2014. He serves as an Associate Editor of Neurocomputing and The Visual
Computer.

Authorized licensed use limited to: SUN YAT-SEN UNIVERSITY. Downloaded on February 22,2021 at 18:34:56 UTC from IEEE Xplore. Restrictions apply.

