LEARNING TARGET-ORIENTED DUAL ATTENTION FOR ROBUST RGB-T TRACKING
Rui Yang, Yabin Zhu, Xiao Wang, Chenglong Li, Jin Tang

arXiv:1908.04441v1 [cs.CV] 12 Aug 2019

Anhui University
School of Computer Science and Technology
Jiulong Road No. 111, Hefei, Anhui Province, China
ABSTRACT
RGB-Thermal object tracking attempt to locate target object
using complementary visual and thermal infrared data. Existing RGB-T trackers fuse different modalities by robust feature
representation learning or adaptive modal weighting. However, how to integrate dual attention mechanism for visual
tracking is still a subject that has not been studied yet. In this
paper, we propose two visual attention mechanisms for robust
RGB-T object tracking. Specifically, the local attention is implemented by exploiting the common visual attention of RGB
and thermal data to train deep classifiers. We also introduce
the global attention, which is a multi-modal target-driven attention estimation network. It can provide global proposals
for the classifier together with local proposals extracted from
previous tracking result. Extensive experiments on two RGBT benchmark datasets validated the effectiveness of our proposed algorithm.
Index Terms— Dual Attention Mechanism, RGB-Thermal
Tracking, Global Searching Strategy
1. INTRODUCTION
Visual tracking has achieved great success in recent years
due to the wide application of neural networks [1, 2]. However, tracking performance in the wild scenario is still unsatisfactory, due to the influence of illumination, clutter background, heavy occlusion and out-of-view, etc.
Recently, some researchers resort to other data to help
improve the robustness of visual trackers, such as thermal
images [3], natural language description [4] and depth images [5]. Compared to text and depth images, thermal sensor is not sensitive to lighting condition and can capture the
target object at far distance, and it still works well at night
while RGB, depth or text may failed. What’s more, it has
a strong ability to penetrate haze as well as smog. Therefore, RGB-T tracking receives much attention in recent years.
However, the tracking performance of existing RGB-T algorithms is also unsatisfactory to some extent due to aforementioned challenging factors.
Visual attention has a great potential of facilitating learning discriminative classifiers for RGB-T tracking. Existing

deep attentive trackers [6, 7] mainly adopt additional attention modules for estimating feature weights to strengthen the
discriminative power of features and improve the tracking accuracy. However, the feature weights learned in single frame
may not enable classifier to concentrate on robust features
over a long temporal span. Moreover, slight inaccuracy of
feature weights will exacerbate the misclassification problem.
Similar views can also be found in DAT tracker [8]. This inspired us to think how the visual attention can help the tracker
attend to target objects over time?
In this paper, we propose a novel dual visual attention
guided deep RGB-T tracking algorithm, i.e. the local attention and global attention. The training process consists of
both a forward and a backward step. In the forward step,
we feed the paired RGB and thermal samples into a deep
tracking-by-detection network and estimate the corresponding classification score. In the backward step, we take the
partial derivative of this classification score with respect to the
input paired RGB-T samples along the direction from the last
fully connected layer towards the first convolutional layer. We
take the partial derivative output of the first layer as the common attention map of RGB and thermal inputs. Each pixel
value on this attention map indicates the importance of the
corresponding pixels of the input RGB-T samples to affect
the classification accuracy. We add this attention map in the
loss function as a regularization term during training to make
the classifier pay more attention to target regions.
Although aforementioned RGB-T tracker can already
achieve good performance, however, it still follows the local
search strategy under tracking-by-detection framework. This
will make the tracker sensitive to challenging factors, due to
previous tracking result may already invalid for the ensure of
candidate search window. Similar views can also be found
in [4, 9]. Therefore, we extend the target-driven attention
estimation network which is first proposed in [4] into the
RGB-T global attention version to handle the issues caused
by local search strategy. Specifically, we take the RGB,
thermal images and initial target objects as inputs, and concatenate the feature maps extracted from fully convolutional
network. These features are fed into an up-sample network
to generate corresponding attention map. High quality global
proposals can be extracted from the attention regions and

fed into the classifier together with local proposals. Hence,
the complementary of local and global attention maps will
further improve the robustness and accuracy of RGB-T object
tracker.
The contributions of this paper can be summarized as
the following three aspects: 1) We propose a local attention mechanism to exploit visual attention for RGB-T object
tracking. 2) We extend the target-driven global attention
mechanism into multi-modal version to further improve the
robustness of RGB-T tracker. 3) We conduct extensive experiments on two RGB-T benchmark datasets to validate the
effectiveness of our tracker and also the attention modules.
2. RELATED WORKS
RGB-T Visual Tracking. RGB-T tracking receives more
and more attention in computer vision community with the
popularity of thermal infrared sensors. Wu et al. [10] concatenate the image patches from RGB and thermal sources,
and then sparsely represent each sample in the target template
space for tracking. Modal weights are introduced for each
source to represent the image quality, and combine with the
sparse representation in Bayesian filtering framework to perform object tracking [11]. Zhu et al. [6] propose a qualityaware feature aggregation network to fuse multi-layer deep
feature and multimodal information adaptively for RGB-T
tracking. Although these works also achieve good performance on RGB-T benchmarks, however, they still adopt local search strategy for target localization and seldom of them
consider explore long-term visual attentions for their tracker.
Attention for Visual Tracking. Attention mechanism
originates from the study of human congnitive neuroscience
[12]. In visual tracking, the cosine window map [13] and
Gaussian window map [14] are widely used in DCF tracker
to suppress the boundary effect, which can interpreted as
one type of visual spatial attention. For short-time tracking,
DAVT [15] used a discriminative spatial attention and ACFN
[16] developed an attentional mechanism that chose a subset
of the associated correlation filters for visual tracking. Recently, RASNet [17] integrates the spatial attention, channel
attention and residual attention to achieve the state-of-the-art
tracking accuracy. Different from these works, we propose a
novel local and global attention for robust RGB-T tracking.
3. OUR TRACKER
3.1. Network Architecture
The overall pipeline of our RGB-T tracker can be found
in Fig. 1. Our tracker contains two main modules, i.e., local
attention based RGB-T tracker and multi-modal target-driven
global attention estimation module.
Local Attention Network.
The regular tracking-bydetection framework usually defines the target object as the

Fig. 1. The pipeline of our proposed tracking algorithm.
positive class and the background as the negative class to train
a binary classifier, such as MDNet [18]. We adopt MDNet as
the core of our RGB-T baseline tracker due to its powerful
feature representation. Specifically, for the input RGB and
thermal samples pairs, we use three convolutional layers and
two fully connected layers to extract their features. To reduce
the computational burden, the features of different models are
concatenated and fed into the domain-specific layers to get
the score map. The cross entropy loss is used for the optimization, which can be written as follows:
Lc = −

N
X

yi logPi + (1 − yi )log(1 − Pi )

(1)

i=1

where N is the mini-batch size, yi the ground truth label of the
i-th RGB-T sample pair, Pi is the prediction of corresponding
RGB-T sample pair.
To make the classifier focuses more attention on the target
object in the tracking procedure, we add a regularization term
based on the cross-entropy function used in MDNet. The motivation of this term is: we can obtain two attention maps for
the input pairs, i.e., the positive attention map Ap and the negative attention map An . For each positive sample, we expect
the pixel values of Ap related to target objects to be large and
the pixel values An should be small. Therefore, the attention
regularization term for each positive sample can be written as:
R(y=1) =

σAp
µAn
+
,
µAp
σA n

(2)

where µ and σ are the mean and standard deviation operators for the attention maps. We can also obtain corresponding
regularization term for the negative training samples as:
R(y=0) =

µAp
σA n
+
,
σAp
µAn

(3)

The final formulation of our classification and regularization
term can be written as:
L = Lc + λ ∗ [y ∗ Ry=1 + (1 − y) ∗ Ry=0 ],

(4)

where Ry=1 and Ry=0 denote the regularization terms of the
positive and negative training examples, respectively. λ is a
scalar parameter used to balance the two terms. In our experiments, we also check the influence of this parameter.
Based on Eq. 4, we can conduct the reciprocative learning
[8] via standard backward propagation and chain rule. The
attention maps of each input training data can be obtained
in each iteration of the classifier training. The classifier will
pay more attention to target objects than the background. In
the tracking stage, the attention terms will not be used and
the classifier will learn to attend the RGB and thermal image
pairs.
Although we can already obtain good performance with
the local attention mechanism, however, this improved trackingby-detection framework still adopt the local search strategy
which may lead to sensitive to heavy occlusion, out-of-view
and abrupt motion, etc. Similar views can also be found
in [4,9]. Hence, we introduce the RGB-T target-driven global
attention network to handle this issue. The detailed introduction can be found in the following subsection.
Global Attention Network. In this subsection, we propose the RGB-T target-driven global attention estimation network to complement with local proposals for robust visual
tracking. As shown in Fig. 1, the input of this module are
RGB, thermal video frame and corresponding target objects.
We adopt the truncated VGG network to extract the feature
representation of these inputs and concatenate into one feature maps. Specifically, we first resize all the input image and
patches into 192 × 256 × 3 and the corresponding feature map
is 12 × 16 × 512. Therefore, the concatenated feature map is
12 × 16 × 2048 and then fed into the upsample network. The
upsample network is a reversed VGG network and its output
has the same resolution with the input image.
3.2. Training
Different from regular deep trackers which may need to
pre-training on large scale classification dataset, our proposed
local attention based RGB-T tracker is not need such pretraining. Following [8], we only initialize the parameters of
our network using VGG network which only pre-trained on
ImageNet dataset for the classification task. Our experiments
validate that our tracker can achieve comparable or even better tracking performance on RGB-T dataset with the help of
local attention mechanism.
For the RGB-T target-driven global attention network, we
use GTOT-50 [19] as training dataset and tracking on RGBT234 dataset [3], and also use RGBT-234 dataset for training
and test on GTOT-50 dataset. Following [4], the ground truth
binary mask used for training is generated from corresponding training dataset. Specifically, we first generate a black
mask which has the same resolution as the video frame, then,
we bleach the target object regions according to annotated
BBox in the training dataset.

Fig. 2. Tracking results on GTOT-50 and RGBT-234 dataset.

3.3. Tracking
In the first frame, positive and negative samples are extracted around the initial target location according to their
intersection over union (IoU) with ground truth BBox. The
samples will be regarded as positive samples if their IoU in
range of 0.7 to 1 and negative samples if the overlap is less
than 0.5.
For each video frame, we first draw N proposals around
previous tracking result and global attention regions. Then
these samples will be fed into our RGB-T tracking network.
The proposal with maximum classification score will be chosen as the candidate result of current frame. After that, we
adopt bounding box regression to refine the target location.

4. EXPERIMENTS
4.1. Datasets and Evaluation Criteria
The GTOT-50 and RGBT-234 datasets are used in our experiment to validate the effectiveness of our tracker. GTOT50 contains 50 RGB-T video sequences including more than
six hundred RGB-T matching image pairs. RGBT-234 contains 234 RGB-T video sequences including more than 11000
RGB-T matching image pairs totally. In our experiments, we
use precision rate (PR) and success rate (SR) as the evaluation
criteria of algorithm performance. The threshold of distance
are set to 5 pixels for GTOT-50 and RGBT-234 equally, and
the threshold for overlap is set to 0.6 for both datasets.

by the smaller GTOT-50 dataset. In our future works, we will
consider to introduce co-attention and multi-scale mechanism
to achieve better tracking results.
4.4. Ablation Study

Fig. 3. Attention maps generated by our attention network.
4.2. Implementation Details
Due to the insufficient images in GTOT-50 dataset, it is
hard to train a robust global attention generator. Therefore,
we train the attention network based on both GTOT-50 and
LaSOT dataset [20] (we replace the thermal data with RGB
image for the LaSOT dataset). We set the target object pixels
as zero and background pixels as 255 to obtain binary mask
for each video frame. Those masks are used as ground truth
attention maps to optimize the global attention network. It is
also worthy to note that, only select 44660 images are selected
from the LaSOT dataset for the training to quickly validate
our proposed method (original dataset contains 3.52 million
frames). To avoid the influence of inaccurate global proposals, we propose some constraints to filter out them: If the
distance between the center of global proposals and the center of the result in the previous frame exceeds a pre-setting
scalar or the overlap between them is less than the threshold,
the global proposals will be discarded. We experimentally set
the distance and overlap threshold as 25 and 0.3, respectively.
The initial learning rate is 5e-5, batchsize is 20, Adagrad
is used for the optimization. The network is trained for 50
epoches. All the experiments are implemented based on PyTorch on a desktop computer with Ubuntu 16.04, I7-6700K,
NVIDIA GTX-1080TI with 11G VRAM and 32G RAM.
4.3. Comparison with other trackers
For the RGBT-234 dataset, the overall tracking results can
be found in Fig. 2. Our tracker obtains 0.545 and 0.787 on SR
and PR criterion which are all significantly better than other
trackers. This fully demonstrate the effectiveness of our proposed RGB-T tracker. Moreover, we visualize some attention
maps and tracking results in Fig. 3 and Fig. 4, respectively.
As shown in Fig. 2, our tracker achieves the state-of-theart performance on SR and also second top result on PR criterion on GTOT-50 dataset when compared with other tracking
algorithms. Specifically, our tracker achieves 0.677 on SR
which is significantly better than second top algorithm ECO
(SR: 0.631). This also fully demonstrate the effectiveness of
our proposed RGB-T tracker. However, our tracker is not as
good as SGT on this dataset on PR criterion, we think this
maybe caused by the utilization of inter-modal weighting and
patches weighting mechanism of SGT and the bias caused

To demonstrate the significance of our proposed method,
we conduct experiments of component analysis on GTOT-50
dataset. The following three models are designed to check the
effectiveness of each component: 1) Our-baseline, we remove
both the reciprocative learning algorithm and target-driven attention mechanism. 2) Our-La, only the reciprocative learning algorithm is used. 3) Ours, both reciprocative learning
and target-driven attention are all used.
The experimental results are shown in Fig. 2. According
to the results, the PR and SR of Our-La is 3.7 and 4.9 points
higher than the baseline respectively. This fully validate the
effectiveness of our multi-modal reciprocative learning algorithm. In addition, we can find that the target-driven global
proposal mechanism improves 0.4 points on both PR and SR
criteria. This also proved that the global attention could also
help improve the results of visual trackers.
To validate the influence of different values of λ in Eq. 4,
we conduct following experiment to check the final tracking
results. As shown in Table 1, we set the λ from 1 to 9, and
the tracking results is nearly the same. Therefore, we can find
that our RGB-T tracker is not sensitive to this parameter.
Table 1. The tracking results with different values of λ.
λ
PR
SR

1
84.3
67.4

2
84.9
67.4

3
84.3
67.7

4
84.8
67.4

5
83.5
66.9

6
84.1
67.5

7
83.8
67.1

8
84.6
66.9

9
84.7
67.7

In addition, we also report the running time of our tracker
and baseline tracker: our tracker achieves 0.349 FPS while
the baseline tracker achieves 0.633 FPS and DAT tracker
(RGBT version) is 0.465 FPS. Although our tracker is a little
slower than the baseline tracker, however, we can obtains
better tracking results and more robust to challenging factors.
Besides, the proposed dual-attention mechanism is generic
and can also be integrated with real-time tracker, such as
RT-MDNet [21]. We leave this as our future works.
We also conduct experiments to check the robustness of
our proposed RGBT tracker under each challenging factors
on the RGBT-234 dataset. The detailed tracking results are
shown in Fig. 5. It is easy to find that our tracker is more
robust to most of the challenging factors than the compared
algorithms.
5. CONCLUSION
Many existing RGB-T tracking algorithms directly fuse
the image features and train a binary classifier. However, they
ignore the attention of the classifier and their local search

strategy in tracking-by-detection framework also limit their
robustness. In this paper, we propose a reciprocative learning
algorithm and use common attention maps as a regularization
term to train a more discriminative classifiers. In addition,
we also introduce multi-modal target-driven global attention
network for high-quality global proposal generation for visual tracking. Extensive experiments on two RGB-T tracking
dataset validated the effectiveness of our RGB-T tracker.
6. ACKNOWLEDGEMENTS
This work is jointly supported by National Natural Science Foundation of China (61702002, 61671018, 61872005),
Key International Cooperation Projects of the National Foundation (61860206004), Natural Science Foundation of Anhui
Province (1808085QF187), Natural Science Foundation of
Anhui Higher Education Institution of China (KJ2017A017),
Institute of Physical Science and Information Technology,
Anhui University.
7. REFERENCES
[1] Xiao Wang, Chenglong Li, Bin Luo, and Jin Tang,
“Sint++: Robust visual tracking via adversarial positive instance generation,” in Proceedings of the IEEE
Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2018, pp. 4864–4873.
[2] Jiangfeng Xiong, Xiangmin Xu, Bolun Cai, Xiaofen
Xing, and Kailing Guo, “Learning adaptive selection network for real-time visual tracking,” in 2018
IEEE International Conference on Multimedia and
Expo (ICME). IEEE, 2018, pp. 1–6.
[3] Chenglong Li, Xinyan Liang, Yijuan Lu, Nan Zhao, and
Jin Tang, “Rgb-t object tracking: Benchmark and baseline,” arXiv preprint arXiv:1805.08982, 2018.
[4] Xiao Wang, Chenglong Li, Rui Yang, Tianzhu Zhang,
Jin Tang, and Bin Luo, “Describe and attend to track:
Learning natural language guided structural representation and visual attention for object tracking,” arXiv
preprint arXiv:1811.10014, 2018.

[7] Qi Chu, Wanli Ouyang, Hongsheng Li, Xiaogang Wang,
Bin Liu, and Nenghai Yu, “Online multi-object tracking using cnn-based single object tracker with spatialtemporal attention mechanism,” in 2017 IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision (ICCV).(Oct
2017), 2017, pp. 4846–4855.
[8] Shi Pu, Yibing Song, Chao Ma, Honggang Zhang, and
Ming-Hsuan Yang, “Deep attentive tracking via reciprocative learning,” in Advances in Neural Information
Processing Systems, 2018, pp. 1933–1943.
[9] Gao Zhu, Fatih Porikli, and Hongdong Li, “Beyond local search: Tracking objects everywhere with instancespecific proposals,” in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition,
2016, pp. 943–951.
[10] Yi Wu, E. Blasch, Genshe Chen, Li Bai, and Haibin
Ling, “Multiple source data fusion via sparse representation for robust visual tracking,” in Proceedings of the
International Conference on Information Fusion, 2011,
pp. 1–8.
[11] Chenglong Li, Nan Zhao, Yijuan Lu, Chengli Zhu, and
Jin Tang, “Weighted sparse representation regularized
graph learning for rgb-t object tracking,” in Proceedings of the 2017 ACM on Multimedia Conference. ACM,
2017, pp. 1856–1864.
[12] B A Olshausen, C H Anderson, and Van Essen, D C, “A
neurobiological model of visual attention and invariant
pattern recognition based on dynamic routing of information,” Journal of Neuroscience, vol. 13, no. 11, pp.
4700–4719, 1993.
[13] David S Bolme, J Ross Beveridge, Bruce A Draper, and
Yui Man Lui, “Visual object tracking using adaptive correlation filters,” in Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition (CVPR), 2010 IEEE Conference on. IEEE, 2010,
pp. 2544–2550.
[14] Martin Danelljan, Gustav Hager, Fahad Shahbaz Khan,
and Michael Felsberg, “Learning spatially regularized
correlation filters for visual tracking,” in Proceedings of
the IEEE International Conference on Computer Vision,
2015, pp. 4310–4318.

[5] Shuran Song and Jianxiong Xiao, “Tracking revisited
using rgbd camera: Unified benchmark and baselines,”
in Proceedings of the IEEE international conference on
computer vision, 2013, pp. 233–240.

[15] Jialue Fan, Ying Wu, and Shengyang Dai, “Discriminative spatial attention for robust tracking,” in European Conference on Computer Vision. Springer, 2010,
pp. 480–493.

[6] Yabin Zhu, Chenglong Li, Yijuan Lu, Liang Lin, Bin
Luo, and Jin Tang, “Fanet: Quality-aware feature aggregation network for rgb-t tracking,” arXiv preprint
arXiv:1811.09855, 2018.

[16] Jongwon Choi, Hyung Jin Chang, Sangdoo Yun, Tobias
Fischer, Yiannis Demiris, Jin Young Choi, et al., “Attentional correlation filter network for adaptive visual
tracking.,” in CVPR, 2017, vol. 2, p. 7.

[17] Qiang Wang, Zhu Teng, Junliang Xing, Jin Gao, Weiming Hu, and Stephen Maybank, “Learning attentions:
residual attentional siamese network for high performance online visual tracking,” in Proceedings of
the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern
Recognition, 2018, pp. 4854–4863.
[18] Hyeonseob Nam and Bohyung Han, “Learning multidomain convolutional neural networks for visual tracking,” in Proceedings of the IEEE Conference on Computer Vision and Pattern Recognition, 2016, pp. 4293–
4302.
[19] Chenglong Li, Xiang Sun, Xiao Wang, Lei Zhang, and
Jin Tang, “Grayscale-thermal object tracking via multitask laplacian sparse representation,” IEEE Transactions on Systems, Man, and Cybernetics: Systems, vol.
47, no. 4, pp. 673–681, 2017.
[20] Heng Fan, Liting Lin, Fan Yang, Peng Chu, Ge Deng,
Sijia Yu, Hexin Bai, Yong Xu, Chunyuan Liao, and
Haibin Ling, “Lasot: A high-quality benchmark for
large-scale single object tracking,” 2018.
[21] Ilchae Jung, Jeany Son, Mooyeol Baek, and Bohyung
Han, “Real-time mdnet,” in The European Conference
on Computer Vision (ECCV), September 2018.

Fig. 4. Results of our tracker and other tracking algorithm.

Fig. 5. The tracking results under various challenging factors.

